1.4.7 Negating Quantified Expressions 
We will often want to consider the negation of a quantified expression. For 
instance, consider the negation of the statement: 
“Every student in your class has taken a course in calculus.” 
This statement is a universal quantification, namely,∀𝑥𝑃(𝑥), where 𝑃(𝑥) is 
the statement “x has taken a course in calculus” and the domain consists of 
the students in your class. The negation of this statement is “It is not the case 
that every student in your class has taken a course in calculus.” This is 
equivalent to “There is a student in your class who has not taken a course in 
calculus.” And this is simply the existential quantification of the negation of 
the original propositional function, namely, ∃𝑥 ￢𝑃(𝑥). 

This example illustrates the following logical equivalence: 
￢∀𝑥𝑃(𝑥) ≡ ∃𝑥 ￢𝑃(𝑥). 

To show that ￢∀𝑥𝑃(𝑥) and ∃𝑥𝑃(𝑥) are logically equivalent no matter what 
the propositional function 𝑃(𝑥) is and what the domain is, first note that    
￢∀𝑥𝑃(𝑥) is true if and only if ∀𝑥𝑃(𝑥) is false. Next, note that ∀𝑥𝑃(𝑥) is 
false if and only if there is an element x in the domain for which P(x) is false. 
This holds if and only if there is an element x in the domain for which ￢𝑃(𝑥) 
is true. Finally, note that there is an element x in the domain for which 
￢𝑃(𝑥) is true if and only if ∃𝑥 ￢𝑃(𝑥) is true. Putting these steps together, 
we can conclude that ￢∀𝑥𝑃(𝑥) is true if and only if ∃𝑥 ￢𝑃(𝑥) is true. It 
follows that ￢∀𝑥𝑃(𝑥) and ∃𝑥 ￢𝑃(𝑥) are logically equivalent. 
Suppose we wish to negate an existential quantification. For instance, 
consider the proposition “There is a student in this class who has taken a 
course in calculus.” This is the existential Quantification ∃𝑥𝑄(𝑥), where 𝑄(𝑥) 
is the statement “x has taken a course in calculus.” The negation of this 
statement is the proposition “It is not the case that there is a student in this 
class who has taken a course in calculus.” This is equivalent to “Every student 
in this class has not taken calculus,” which is just the universal quantification 
of the negation of the original propositional function, or, phrased in the 
language of quantifiers, ∀𝑥 ￢𝑄(𝑥).