1.4.4 Precedence of Quantifiers 
The quantifiers ∀ and ∃ have higher precedence than all logical operators 
from propositional calculus. For example, ∀𝑥𝑃(𝑥) ∨ 𝑄(𝑥) is the disjunction 
of ∀𝑥𝑃(𝑥) 𝑎𝑛𝑑 𝑄(𝑥). In other words, it means (∀𝑥𝑃(𝑥)) ∨ 𝑄(𝑥) rather 
than ∀𝑥(𝑃(𝑥) ∨ 𝑄(𝑥)). 

1.4.5 Binding Variables 
When a quantifier is used on the variable 𝑥, we say that this occurrence of 
the variable is bound. An occurrence of a variable that is not bound by a 
quantifier or set equal to a particular value is said to be free. All the variables 
that occur in a propositional function must be bound or set equal to a 
particular value to turn it into a proposition. This can be done using a 
combination of universal quantifiers, existential quantifiers, and value 
assignments. 

The part of a logical expression to which a quantifier is applied is called the 
scope of this quantifier. Consequently, a variable is free if it is outside the 
scope of all quantifiers in the formula that specify this variable. 
In the statement ∃𝑥(𝑥 +  𝑦 =  1), the variable 𝑥 is bound by the existential 
quantification ∃𝑥, but the variable 𝑦 is free because it is not bound by a 
quantifier and no value is assigned to this variable. This illustrates that in the 
statement ∃𝑥(𝑥 +  𝑦 =  1), 𝑥 is bound, but 𝑦 is free. 
In the statement ∃𝑥(𝑃(𝑥) ∧ 𝑄(𝑥)) ∨ ∀𝑥𝑅(𝑥), all variables are bound. The 
scope of the first quantifier, ∃𝑥, is the expression 𝑃(𝑥) ∧ 𝑄(𝑥) because ∃𝑥 
is applied only to 𝑃(𝑥) ∧ 𝑄(𝑥), and not to the rest of the statement. 
Similarly, the scope of the second quantifier, ∀𝑥, is the expression 𝑅(𝑥). That 
is, the existential quantifier binds the variable 𝑥 in 𝑃(𝑥) ∧ 𝑄(𝑥) and the 
universal quantifier ∀𝑥 binds the variable 𝑥 in 𝑅(𝑥). Observe that we could 
have written our statement using two different variables 𝑥 and 𝑦, as 
∃𝑥(𝑃(𝑥) ∧ 𝑄(𝑥)) ∨ ∀𝑦𝑅(𝑦), because the scopes of the two quantifiers do 
not overlap. You should be aware that in common usage, the same letter is 
often used to represent variables bound by different quantifiers with scopes 
that do not overlap. 