1.5.6 Rules of Inference for Quantified Statements 
We have discussed rules of inference for propositions. We will now describe 
some important rules of inference for statements involving quantifiers. 
These rules of inference are used extensively in mathematical arguments, 
often without being explicitly mentioned.  
Universal instantiation is the rule of inference used to conclude that 𝑃(𝑐) is 
true, where 𝑐 is a particular member of the domain, given the premise 
∀𝑥𝑃(𝑥). Universal instantiation is used when we conclude from the 
statement “All women are wise” that “Lisa is wise,” where Lisa is a member 
of the domain of all women.  
Universal generalization is the rule of inference that states that ∀𝑥𝑃(𝑥) is 
true, given the premise that 𝑃(𝑐) is true for all elements c in the domain. 
Universal generalization is used when we show that ∀𝑥𝑃(𝑥) is true by taking 
an arbitrary element 𝑐 from the domain and showing that 𝑃(𝑐) is true. The 
element 𝑐 that we select must be an arbitrary, and not a specific, element of 
the domain.  


That is, when we assert from ∀𝑥𝑃(𝑥) the existence of an element 𝑐 in the 
domain, we have no control over 𝑐 and cannot make any other assumptions 
about 𝑐 other than it comes from the domain. Universal generalization is 
used implicitly in many proofs in mathematics and is seldom mentioned 
explicitly. However, the error of adding unwarranted assumptions about the 
arbitrary element 𝑐 when universal generalization is used is all too common 
in incorrect reasoning. 
Existential instantiation is the rule that allows us to conclude that there is an 
element 𝑐 in the domain for which 𝑃(𝑐) is true if we know that ∃𝑥𝑃(𝑥) is 
true. We cannot select an arbitrary value of 𝑐 here, but rather it must be a 𝑐 
for which 𝑃(𝑐) is true. Usually we have no knowledge of what 𝑐 is, only that it exists. Because it exists, we may give it a name (𝑐) and continue our 
argument. 
Existential generalization is the rule of inference that is used to conclude that 
∃𝑥𝑃(𝑥) is true when a particular element 𝑐 with 𝑃(𝑐) true is known. That is, 
if we know one element 𝑐 in the domain for which 𝑃(𝑐) is true, then we 
know that ∃𝑥𝑃(𝑥) is true. We summarize these rules of inference in Table 
14 below. 
 
Table 14: Rules of Inference for Quantified Statements 