Note that if a student is not currently enrolled in any courses there will be no 
pairs in R that have this student as the first element. Similarly, if a course is 
not currently being offered there will be no pairs in R that have this course as 
their second element. 
Let A be the set of cities in the U.S.A., and let B be the set of the 50 states in 
the U.S.A. Define the relation R by specifying that (a, b) belongs to R if a city 
with name a is in the state b. For instance, (Boulder, Colorado), (Bangor, 
Maine), (Ann Arbor, Michigan), (Middletown, New Jersey), (Middletown, 
New York), (Cupertino, California), and (Red Bank, New Jersey) are in R. 

3.6.2 Functions as Relations 
 
Recall that a function f from a set A to a set B assigns exactly one element of 
B to each element of A. The graph of f is the set of ordered pairs (a, b) such 
that b = f (a). Because the graph of f is a subset of A × B, it is a relation from 
A to B. Moreover, the graph of a function has the property that every 
element of A is the first element of exactly one ordered pair of the graph. 
Conversely, if R is a relation from A to B such that every element in A is the 
first element of exactly one ordered pair of R, then a function can be defined 
with R as its graph. This can be done by assigning to an element a of A the 
unique element b ∈ B such that (a, b) ∈ R. (Note that the relation R in Example 
2 is not the graph of a function because Middletown occurs more than once 
as the first element of an ordered pair in R.) 

A relation can be used to express a one-to-many relationship between the 
elements of the sets A and B (as in Example 2), where an element of A may 
be related to more than one element of B. A function represents a relation 
where exactly one element of B is related to each element of A. 
Relations are a generalization of graphs of functions; they can be used to 
express a much wider class of relationships between sets.

3.6.3 Relations on a Set 
 
Definition 49 
A relation on a set A is a relation from A to A.