Second, suppose that a group has second group also has four employees: 
Washington, Xuan, Ybarra, and Ziegler; and suppose that the same four jobs 
need to be done to complete Project 2 as are needed to complete Project 1. 
Suppose that Washington has been trained to do architecture; Xuan has 
been trained to do requirements, implementation, and testing; Ybarra has 
been trained to do architecture; and Ziegler has been trained to do 
requirements, architecture and testing. We model these employee 
capabilities using the bipartite graph in Figure 4.11. To complete Project 1, 
we must assign an employee to each job so that every job has an employee 
assigned to it, and so that no employee is assigned more than one job. We 
can do this by assigning Alvarez to testing, Berkowitz to implementation, 
Chen to architecture, and Davis to requirements, as shown in Figure 4.10 
(where blue lines show this assignment of jobs). To complete Project 2, we 
must also assign an employee to each job so that every job has an employee 
assigned to it and no employee is assigned more than one job. However, this 
is impossible because there are only two employees, Xuan and Ziegler, who 
have been trained for at least one of the three jobs of requirements, 
implementation, and testing. Consequently, there is no way to assign three 
different employees to these three job so that each job is assigned an 
employee with the appropriate training. 
 

Figure 4.11: Modelling the Jobs for Which Employees Have Been Trained. 
 
Finding an assignment of jobs to employees can be thought of as finding a 
matching in the graph model, where a matching M in a simple graph 
 G = (V ,E) is a subset of the set E of edges of the graph such that no two 
edges are incident with the same vertex. In other words, a matching is a 
subset of edges such that if {s, t} and {u, v} are distinct edges of the matching, 
then s, t , u, and v are distinct. A vertex that is the endpoint of an edge of a 
matching M is said to be matched in M; otherwise it is said to be unmatched. 
A maximum matching is a matching with the largest number of edges. We 
say that a matching M in a bipartite graph G = (V ,E) with bipartition (V1, V2) 
is a complete matching from V1 to V2 if every vertex in V1 is the endpoint of 
an edge in the matching, or equivalently, if |M| = |V1|. For example, to 
assign jobs to employees so that the largest number of jobs are assigned 
employees, we seek a maximum matching in the graph that models 
employee capabilities. To assign employees to all jobs we seek a complete 
matching from the set of jobs to the set of employees.