The set of all odd positive integers less than 10 is a subset of the set of all 
positive integers less than 10, the set of all computer science majors at your 
school is a subset of the set of all students at your school, and the set of all 
people in China is a subset of the set of all people in China. Each of these 
facts follows immediately by noting that an element that belongs to the first 
set in each pair of sets also belongs to the second set in that pair. 
Theorem  
For every set S, (i ) ∅ ⊆ S and (ii ) S ⊆ S. 
 
Proof: We will prove (i )  
Let S be a set. To show that ∅ ⊆ S, we must show that ∀x(x ∈ ∅ → x ∈ S) is 
true. Because the empty set contains no elements, it follows that x ∈ ∅ is 
always false. It follows that the conditional statement x ∈ ∅ → x ∈ S is always 
true, because its hypothesis is always false and a conditional statement with 
a false hypothesis is true. Therefore, ∀x(x ∈ ∅ → x ∈ S) is true. This completes 
the proof of (i). Note that this is an example of a vacuous proof. 
When we wish to emphasize that a set A is a subset of a set B but that A ≠ 
B, we write A ⊂ B and say that A is a proper subset of B. For A ⊂ B to be true, 
it must be the case that A ⊆ B and there must exist an element x of B that is 
not an element of A. That is, A is a proper subset of B if and only if: 
∀𝑥(𝑥 ∈ 𝐴 → 𝑥 ∈ 𝐵) ∧ ∃𝑥(𝑥 ∈ 𝐵 ∧ 𝑥 ∉ 𝐴) is true. Venn diagrams 
can be used to illustrate that a set A is a subset of a set B. We draw the 
universal set U as a rectangle. Within this rectangle we draw a circle for B. 
Because A is a subset of B, we draw the circle for A within the circle for B. 
This relationship is shown in Figure 2.7 A useful way to show that two sets 
have the same elements is to show that each set is a subset of the other. In 
other words, we can show that if A and B are sets with A ⊆ B and B ⊆ A, then 
A = B. That is, A = B if and only if ∀𝑥(𝑥 ∈ 𝐴 → 𝑥 ∈ 𝐵) and 
∀𝑥(𝑥 ∈ 𝐵 → 𝑥 ∈ 𝐴) or equivalently if and only if  
∀𝑥(𝑥 ∈ 𝐴 ↔ 𝑥 ∈ 𝐵), which is what it means for the A and B to be equal. 
Because this method of showing two sets are equal is so useful, we highlight 
it here.