1.4.6 Logical Equivalences Involving Quantifiers 
Definition 13 
Statements involving predicates and quantifiers are logically equivalent if 
and only if they have the same truth value no matter which predicates are 
substituted into these statements and which domain of discourse is used for 
the variables in these propositional functions. We use the notation 𝑆 ≡ 𝑇 
to indicate that two statements 𝑆 𝑎𝑛𝑑 𝑇 involving predicates and quantifiers 
are logically equivalent.

Worked Example 
Show that ∀𝑥(𝑃(𝑥) ∧ 𝑄(𝑥)) and ∀𝑥𝑃(𝑥) ∧ ∀𝑥𝑄(𝑥) are logically 
equivalent (where the same domain is used throughout). This logical 
equivalence shows that we can distribute a universal quantifier over a 
conjunction. Furthermore, we can also distribute an existential quantifier 
over a disjunction. However, we cannot distribute a universal quantifier 
over a disjunction, nor can we distribute an existential quantifier over a 
conjunction. 

Solution: 
To show that these statements are logically equivalent, we must show 
that they always take the same truth value, no matter what the 
predicates 𝑃 𝑎𝑛𝑑 𝑄 are, and no matter which domain of discourse is 
used. Suppose we have particular predicates 𝑃 𝑎𝑛𝑑 𝑄, with a common 
domain. We can show that ∀𝑥(𝑃(𝑥) ∧ 𝑄(𝑥)) and ∀𝑥𝑃(𝑥) ∧ ∀𝑥𝑄(𝑥) 
are logically equivalent by doing two things. First, we show that if 
∀𝑥(𝑃(𝑥) ∧ 𝑄(𝑥)) is true, then ∀𝑥𝑃(𝑥) ∧ ∀𝑥𝑄(𝑥) is true. Second, we 
show that if ∀𝑥𝑃(𝑥) ∧ ∀𝑥𝑄(𝑥) is true, then ∀𝑥(𝑃(𝑥) ∧ 𝑄(𝑥)) is true. 
So, suppose that ∀𝑥(𝑃(𝑥) ∧ 𝑄(𝑥)) is true. This means that if a is in the 
domain, then 𝑃(𝑎) ∧ 𝑄(𝑎) is true. Hence, 𝑃(𝑎) is true and 𝑄(𝑎) is true. 
Because 𝑃(𝑎) is true and 𝑄(𝑎) is true for every element in the domain, 
we can conclude that ∀𝑥𝑃(𝑥) and ∀𝑥𝑄(𝑥) are both true. This means that 
∀𝑥𝑃(𝑥) ∧ ∀𝑥𝑄(𝑥) is true. 
Next, suppose that ∀𝑥𝑃(𝑥) ∧ ∀𝑥𝑄(𝑥) is true. It follows that ∀𝑥𝑃(𝑥) is 
true and ∀𝑥𝑄(𝑥) is true. Hence, if 𝑎 is in the domain, then 𝑃(𝑎) is true 
and 𝑄(𝑎) is true [because 𝑃(𝑥) and 𝑄(𝑥) are both true for all elements 
in the domain, there is no conflict using the same value of a here].   
It follows that for all 𝑎, 𝑃(𝑎) ∧ 𝑄(𝑎) is true. It follows that ∀𝑥(𝑃(𝑥) ∧
 𝑄(𝑥)) is true. We can now conclude that: 
∀𝑥(𝑃(𝑥) ∧ 𝑄(𝑥)) ≡ ∀𝑥𝑃(𝑥) ∧ ∀𝑥𝑄(𝑥). 