3.6 Relations 
Relationships between elements of sets occur in many contexts. Every day we 
deal with relationships such as those between a business and its telephone 
number, an employee and his or her salary, a person and a relative, and so 
on. In mathematics we study relationships such as those between a positive 
integer and one that it divides, an integer and one that it is congruent to 
modulo 5, a real number and one that is larger than it, a real number x and 
the value f (x) where f is a function, and so on. 
Relationships between elements of sets are represented using the structure 
called a relation, which is just a subset of the Cartesian product of the sets. 
Relations can be used to solve problems such as determining which pairs of 
cities are linked by airline flights in a network, finding a viable order for the 
different phases of a complicated project, or producing a useful way to store 
information in computer databases. 
3.6.1 Relations and Their Properties 
The most direct way to express a relationship between elements of two sets 
is to use ordered pairs made up of two related elements. For this reason, sets 
of ordered pairs are called binary relations. In this section we introduce the 
basic terminology used to describe binary relations. 


Definition 48 
Let A and B be sets. A binary relation from A to B is a subset of A × B. 
 
In other words, a binary relation from A to B is a set R of ordered pairs where 
the first element of each ordered pair comes from A and the second element 
comes from B. We use the notation belongs to R, a is said to be related to b by R. 
Binary relations represent relationships between the elements of two sets. 
Let A be the set of students in your school, and let B be the set of courses. 
Let R be the relation that consists of those pairs (a, b), where a is a student 
enrolled in course b. For instance, if Jason Goodfriend and Deborah Sherman 
are enrolled in CS518, the pairs (Jason Goodfriend, CS518) and (Deborah 
Sherman, CS518) belong to R. If Jason Goodfriend is also enrolled in CS510, 
then the pair (Jason Goodfriend, CS510) is also in R. However, if Deborah 
Sherman is not enrolled in CS510, then the pair (Deborah Sherman, CS510) 
is not in R. 