4.2.8 Security control   
Security controls are countermeasures used to prevent or respond to security threats and to reduce 
or avoid risk. Details on how to use security countermeasures are typically outlined in the security 
policy, which contains a set of rules and practices specifying how to implement a system, service, or 
security plan for maximum protection of sensitive and critical IT resources. 
 
4.2.9 Security policies   
A security policy contains a set of security rules and regulations. Security policies will further define 
how these rules and regulations are implemented and enforced. For example, the positioning and 
usage of security controls and mechanisms can be determined by security policies. 
 
4.2.10 Threat Agent    
A threat agent is an entity that poses a threat because it is capable of carrying out an attack.  
 
4.2.11 Trusted Attacker 
A trusted attacker shares IT resources in the same cloud environment as the cloud consumer and 
attempts to exploit legitimate credentials to target cloud providers and the cloud tenants with whom 
they share IT resources 

Cloud Security Threats   
Cloud security threats can originate either internally or externally, from humans or software programs. 
Common examples of cloud security threats and vulnerability in a cloud-based environment are 
discussed below;  
  
4.3.1 Traffic Eavesdropping  
This occurs when data being transferred to or within a cloud is passively intercepted by a malicious 
service agent for illegitimate information gathering purposes. The aim of this attack is to directly 
compromise the confidentiality of the data; and sometimes the confidentiality of the relationship 
between the cloud consumer and cloud provider   

Fig 4.1: Traffic eavesdropping  
 
4.3.2 Denial of Service    
This occurs when IT resources are being overloaded to the extent that they cannot function properly.  
This form of attack is commonly launched in one of the following ways: 

 The workload on cloud services is artificially increased with imitation messages or repeated 
communication requests. 
 The network is overloaded with traffic to reduce its responsiveness and cripple its 
performance. 
 Multiple cloud service requests are sent, each of which is designed to consume excessive 
memory and processing resources. 
Successful DoS attacks produce server degradation and/or failure.  

Fig 4.2: Denial of service attack 