5.9 Distributed Computing 
It is a model in which components of a software system are shared among multiple computers to 
improve efficiency and performance. In distributed computing, multiple computer systems work on a 
single problem. The ultimate of goal of distributed computing is to maximise performance by 
connecting users and IT resources in a cost-effective, transparent and reliable manner. It also ensures 
fault tolerance and enable resource accessibility in the event that one component fails.  
A distributed system allows resource-sharing including software by systems connected to their 
network. Examples of distributed systems/ applications of distributed computing are internet, airline 
reservation system, electronic banking, telecommunication networks, etc.  
 
5.9.1 Benefits of Distributed Computing 
The benefits of distributing computing are discussed below;  
Scalability  
Distributed systems are inherently scalable. A user can add another machine to handle the increasing 
workload instead of having to update a single system over and over again. 
Fault tolerance and redundancy 
Distributed systems are more fault-tolerance than single machines. A business running a cluster of a 
machine across two data centres means its applications would work even if one data centre goes 
offline. 
Improved efficiency 
Distributed systems allow breaking complex problems into smaller pieces and have multiple work on 
them in parallel which can help cut down on the time needed to solve those problems.  
Cost effectiveness 
They are much more cost-effective compared to very large centralised systems. A distributed system 
made up of many mini-computers can be more cost-effective than a mainframe machine. 

Reliability – high fault tolerance 
A system crash on one server does not affect others. 
Other benefits of distributed computing are; 
 Flexibility  
 Resource sharing  
 High performance 

Some disadvantages of a distributed computing are listed below;  
 Some messages can be lost in the network system  
 Security concern 
 Overloading 
 Higher initial cost 
 Network reliance 
 Complexity  