1.3 Concepts and Terminologies in Cloud Computing  
 
Concepts and terminologies in the cloud refers to a set of basic terms that represent the fundamental 
concepts and aspects pertaining to the notion of a cloud.  These terminologies are discussed below;  

Cloud 
A Cloud refers to a distinct IT environment that is designed for the purpose of remotely provisioning 
scalable and measured IT resources. The term originated as a metaphor for the Internet which is, in 
essence, a network of networks providing remote access to a set of decentralized IT resources. Prior 
to cloud computing becoming its own formalized IT industry segment, the symbol of a cloud was 
commonly used to represent the Internet in a variety of specifications and mainstream documentation 
of Web-based architectures. This same symbol is now used to specifically represent the boundary of 
a cloud environment as shown in Figure 1.3 below 

Figure 1.3: The cloud symbol used to denote the boundary of a cloud environment. 
It is important to distinguish the term “cloud” and the cloud symbol from the Internet. As a specific 
environment used to remotely provision IT resources, a cloud has a finite boundary. There are many 
individual clouds that are accessible via the Internet. Whereas the Internet provides open access to 
many Web-based IT resources, a cloud is typically privately owned and offers access to IT resources 
that is metered. 

Much of the Internet is dedicated to the access of content-based IT resources published via the World 
Wide Web. IT resources provided by cloud environments, on the other hand, are dedicated to 
supplying back-end processing capabilities and user-based access to these capabilities. Another key 
distinction is that it is not necessary for clouds to be Web-based even if they are commonly based on 
Internet protocols and technologies. Protocols refer to standards and methods that allow computers 
to communicate with each other in a pre-defined and structured manner. A cloud can be based on the 
use of any protocols that allow for the remote access to its IT resources. 
