Chapter 3: Virtualization  
 
3.1 Virtualization Technology  
Virtualization is a technique to share single physical instance of an application or resource among 
multiple organisations or tenants (customers). It does so by assigning a logical name to a physical 
resource and providing a pointer to that physical resource on demand.  Most types of IT resources can 
be virtualized.  
 
Fig 3.1: Virtualized cloud model  

The concept of creating a virtual machine or server over an existing operating system and hardware is 
called Hardware virtualization. Virtual machines provide an environment that is logically separated 
from the underlying hardware. The machine on which the virtual machine is created is referred to as 
Host machine, while the virtual machine is called the guest machine.  This virtual machine is managed 
by a software or firmware called “Hypervisor”.  Hypervisor is the software or firmware that manages 
the virtual machine. The hypervisor acts as a virtual machine manager. They help run multiple OS 
concurrently on a physical system sharing its hardware, hence, it allows multiple OS to share a single 
hardware host. The most important function of virtualization is the capability of running multiple OS 
and applications on a single computer or server.  

The first step in creating a new virtual server or machine through virtualization software is the 
allocation of physical IT resources, followed by the installation of an operating system. Virtual servers 
use their own guest operating systems, which are independent of the operating system in which they 
were created. 

3.2 Benefits of Virtualization 

 Efficient resource utilization 
 Lower costs and extended life of the technology 
 Increased return on investments (ROI) for both the service providers and the consumers 
 Promotes green IT by reducing energy wastage  
 Dynamic data centre 
 Improve disaster recovery 
 Eases administration


3.3 Disadvantages of Virtualization 
 High cost of implementation 
 Scalability issues 
 Requires high-end and powerful infrastructure 
 Security risks  
 Requires specialised skills set 