Chapter 4: Cloud Security  
 
4.1 Introduction  
Security is the biggest concern about cloud computing. Since data management and infrastructure 
management in cloud is provided by a third-party, it is always a risk to handover the sensitive data or 
information to cloud service providers. Although the cloud computing vendors ensure highly secured 
password protected accounts, any sign of security breach may result in loss of data, customers and 
even businesses. It is therefore necessary to have security measures to defend against threats and 
interference that arise malicious intent.  
4.2 Basic Terms and Concept 
Fundamental security terms and concepts relevant to cloud computing are briefly discussed below; 
4.2.1 Confidentiality  
Confidentiality refers to the characteristics of making data, information or resources accessible only 
to authorized parties. Within cloud environments, confidentiality is restricting access to data in transit 
and storage. 

4.2.2  Integrity  
Integrity refers to the characteristics of having data or information not been altered by an 
unauthorized party. Data integrity concerns itself with whether a cloud consumer can be guaranteed 
that the data it transmits to a cloud service matches the data received by that cloud service.  
 
4.2.3  Authenticity  
Authenticity is the characteristics of having data or information provided by authorized source. 
Authenticity encompasses Non-repudiation – which is the inability of a party to deny or challenge the 
authentication of an interaction.   
 
4.2.4  Availability  
Availability is the characteristics of having data or information being accessible and usable during a 
specified period of time.  The availability of cloud services can be a responsibility that is shared by the 
cloud provider and the cloud carrier  
 
4.2.5 Threat   
A threat is a set of circumstances that has the potential to cause loss or harm to a system. A threat 
that is carried out result in an attack. 
 
4.2.6  Vulnerability 
A vulnerability is a weakness in a system which can be exploited either because it is protected by 
insufficient security controls, or existing security controls are overcome by an attack. IT resource 
vulnerabilities can have a range of causes, including configuration deficiencies, security policy 
weaknesses, user errors, hardware or firmware flaws, software bugs, and poor security architecture. 
 
4.2.7  Risk 
Risk is the possibility of loss or harm arising from performing an activity. It is measured according to 
its threat level and the number of possible or known vulnerabilities.    