Application virtualization 
In this type of virtualization, the single application installed on the central server is virtualized, and the 
various virtualized components of the application will be given to the users requesting the services.  

Hardware virtualization 
This is the installation of virtualization software directly on the physical host hardware so as to bypass 
the host operating system, which is presumably engaged with operating system-based virtualization 
Allowing the virtual servers to interact with hardware without requiring intermediary action from the 
host operating system generally makes hardware-based virtualization more efficient. 
One of the main issues of hardware-based virtualization concerns compatibility with hardware 
devices. The virtualization layer is designed to communicate directly with the host hardware, meaning 
all of the associated device drivers and support software need to be compatible with the hypervisor. 
Hardware device drivers may not be as available to hypervisor platforms as they are to operating 
systems. Host management and administration features may further not include the range of 
advanced functions that are common to operating systems. 
 
3.6 Multitenant Technology  
Multitenancy refers to a software architecture design in which a single instance of a software 
application serves multiple tenants (users). Multitenant application enables multiple users (tenants) 
to access the same application simultaneously.  It allows multiple users (tenants) to work in a software 
environment all at the same time, each with their own separate user instances, resources and services. 
Multitenant application ensures that tenants do not have access to data and configuration information 
that is not their own. Tenants can individually customize features of the application such as: User 
interface, access control, data security, application upgrade, scalability, etc.  
SaaS-based software applications delivered over the internet is a common example of multitenant 
architecture where a single application is accessed by many users globally. Multitenant application 
architecture is often significantly more complex than that of single-tenant applications because they 
need to support the sharing of various artefacts.   

Advantages of multitenancy  
 Helps to cut cost of investment  
 It is relatively easy to add new tenants (customers) 
 It is convenient to maintain same application, thereby maximising resource usage  
 Holds multiple tenants all at the same time 

Disadvantages of multitenancy 
 Security 
 Limited customization 
 Rigid service levels 
 Potential cost of re-architecture 
 Increased operational and infrastructural costs and people’s skills 
 Service delivery  
 
Fig 3.2: A multitenant application serving multiple cloud service consumers simultaneously. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
