Chapter 2: Cloud Computing Architecture and Platforms  
 
2.1 Introduction 
There are certain services and models working behind the scene making cloud computing feasible and 
accessible to end users. This chapter analyse various service model and deployment models in cloud 
computing.
  
2.2 Cloud Service Delivery Model 
A cloud service delivery model represents a specific, pre-packaged combination of IT resources 
offered by a cloud provider. There are three (3) common cloud delivery models, namely; 
 Infrastructure-as-a- Service (IaaS) 
 Platform-as-a- Service (PaaS) 
 Software-as-a- Service (SaaS) 

2.2.1  Infrastructure-as-a- Service (IaaS) 
The IaaS delivery model represents a self-contained IT environment comprised of infrastructure-
centric IT resources that can be accessed and managed via cloud service-based interfaces and tools. 
This environment can include hardware, network, connectivity, operating systems and other IT 
resources. In contrast to traditional hosting or outsourcing environment, with IaaS, IT resources are
typically virtualised and packaged into bundles that simplify up-front runtime scaling and 
customisation of the infrastructure. The general purpose of an IaaS environment is to provide cloud 
consumers with a high level of control and responsibility over its configuration and utilisation. 
IaaS provide access to fundamental resources such as physical machines, virtual machines, virtual 
storage, etc. Iaas also offers Virtual machine disk storage, IP addresses, Virtual local area network 
(VLANS),etc.

Fig 2.1: IaaS 
 
Characteristics of IaaS 
 Virtual machines with pre-installed software. 
 Virtual machines with pre-installed operating systems such as Windows, Linux, and Solaris. 
 On-demand availability of resources. 
 Allows to store copies of particular data at different locations. 
 The computing resources can be easily scaled up and down. 
 
Benefits of IaaS 
IaaS allows the cloud provider to freely locate the infrastructure over the Internet in a cost-effective 
manner. Some of the key benefits of IaaS are listed below: 
 Full control of the computing resources through administrative access to VMs. 
 Flexible and efficient renting of computer hardware. 
 Portability, interoperability with legacy applications. 

A cloud consumer is using a virtual server within an IaaS environment. 
Cloud consumers are provided with a range of contractual guarantees by 
the cloud provider, pertaining to characteristics such as capacity, 
performance, and availability. 

Challenges associated with IaaS 
 Data erasure practices. 
 Compatibility with legacy security and vulnerabilities.  
 Robustness of VM level isolation 