2.2.2  Platform-as-a- Service (PaaS) 
The PaaS delivery model represents a pre-defined “ready-to-use” environment typically comprised 
of already deployed and configured IT resources. PaaS specifically relies on the usage of a ready-
made environment that establishes a set of pre-packaged products and tools used to support the 
entire delivery lifecycle of custom applications.  App Engine of Google and Force.com are example of 
PaaS offering vendors. Developer may log on to these websites and use the built-in Application 
Programming Interface (API) to create web-based applications.  By working within a ready-made 
platform, the cloud consumer is spared the administrative burden of setting up and maintaining the 
bare infrastructure IT resources provided via the IaaS model. 
 
 
Fig 2.1: PaaS  

Characteristics of PaaS 
 PaaS offers browser-based development environment. It allows the developer to create 
database and edit the application code either via Application Programming Interface or 
point-and-click tools. 
 PaaS provides built-in security, scalability and web service interfaces 
 PaaS provides built-in tools for defining workflow, approval processes and business rules 
 It is easy to integrate PaaS with other applications on the same platform.  
 
Benefits of PaaS 
 Scalable solutions 
 Lower administrative overhead 
 More current system software 
 
Challenges associated with PaaS 
Just like SaaS, PaaS also places significant burden on customer’s browser to maintain reliable and 
secure connection to the provider’s system.  Other specific issues associated with PaaS are;  
 Lack of portability between PaaS clouds 
 Event based processor scheduling 
 Security engineering of PaaS application 

2.2.3  Software-as-a- Service (SaaS) 
SaaS model provides software application as a service to end users. It refers to a software that is 
deployed on a host service and is accessible via the internet. Some common examples of SaaS 
application are - Billing and Invoicing system, Help desk application, Customer Relationship 
Management (CRM) application, etc.  

Characteristics of SaaS 
 SaaS makes the software available over the internet 
 The software applications are maintained by the vendor 
 SaaS applications are cost-effective since they do not require any maintenance on the end-
user side.  
 They are available on demand 

 Fig 2.2: SaaS 
 
Benefits of SaaS 
 Scalable and efficient  
 Centralised management and data 
 Multitenant solutions  
 The provider is responsible for managing platforms 
 
Challenges associated with SaaS 
 Network dependent  
 Browser- based risks 
 Multitenant solutions  
 Lack of portability between SaaS clouds  