5.8 Cloud Storage Device   

The cloud storage device mechanism represents storage devices that are designed specifically for 
cloud-based provisioning. Instances of these devices can be virtualized. Cloud storage devices are 
commonly able to provide fixed-increment capacity allocation in support of the pay-per-use 
mechanism, and they can be exposed for remote access via cloud storage services. 
Security, integrity and confidentiality of data are primary concern related to cloud storage, and this 
becomes more prone to being compromised when entrusted to external cloud providers and other 
third parties.  There can also be legal and regulatory implications that result from relocating data 
across geographical or national boundaries 
 
5.8.1 Cloud Storage Levels  
Cloud storage device mechanisms provide common logical units of data storage, such as: 
Files– Collections of data are grouped into files that are located in folders. 
Blocks - The lowest level of storage and the closest to the hardware, a block is the smallest unit of 
data that is still individually accessible. 
Datasets – Sets of data are organized into a table-based, delimited, or record format. 
Objects – Data and its associated metadata are organized as Web-based resources. 
Each of these data storage levels is commonly associated with a certain type of technical interface 
which corresponds to a particular type of cloud storage device and cloud storage service used to 
expose its API 

Fig 5.4: Cloud storage
 
As seen in fig 5.4 above, different cloud service consumers utilize different technologies to interface 
with virtualized cloud storage devices 
Network storage interfaces 
It includes storage devices in compliance with industry standard protocols, such as SCSI for storage 
blocks and the server message block (SMB), common Internet file system (CIFS), and network file 
system (NFS) for file and network storage. File storage entails storing individual data in separate files 
that can be different sizes and formats and organized into folders and subfolders. Original files are 
often replaced by the new files that are created when data has been modified. 
When a cloud storage device mechanism is based on this type of interface, its data searching and 
extraction performance will tend to be sub-optimal.  