Chapter 5: Parallel processing, Distributed Computing & Storage 

Systems in the Cloud  
 
5.1 Introduction 
This chapter describes cloud architectural models. parallel processing, distributed computing 

5.2 Workload Distribution Architecture 

IT resources can be horizontally scaled via the addition of one or more identical IT resources, and a 
load balancer that provides runtime logic capable of evenly distributing the workload among the 
available IT resources. The resulting workload distribution architecture reduces both IT resource over-
utilization and under-utilization to an extent dependent upon the sophistication of the load balancing 
algorithms and runtime logic. 
  
Fig 5.1: Distributed Architecture distribution 

As seen above, a redundant copy of Cloud Service A is implemented on Virtual Server B. The load 
balancer intercepts cloud service consumer requests and directs them to both Virtual Servers A and B 
to ensure even workload distribution 
This fundamental architectural model can be applied to any IT resource, with workload distribution 
commonly carried out in support of distributed virtual servers, cloud storage devices, and cloud 
services. Load balancing systems applied to specific IT resources usually produce specialized variations 
of this architecture that incorporate aspects of load balancing 

The following mechanisms can also be part of this cloud architecture: 

• Audit Monitor – When distributing runtime workloads, the type and geographical location of the IT 
resources that process the data can determine whether monitoring is necessary to fulfill legal and 
regulatory requirements. 
• Cloud Usage Monitor – Various monitors can be involved to carry out runtime workload tracking and 
data processing. 
• Hypervisor – Workloads between hypervisors and the virtual servers that they host may require 
distribution. 
• Logical Network Perimeter – The logical network perimeter isolates cloud consumer network 
boundaries in relation to how and where workloads are distributed. 
• Resource Cluster – Clustered IT resources in active/active mode are commonly used to support 
workload balancing between different cluster nodes. 
• Resource Replication – This mechanism can generate new instances of virtualized IT resources in 
response to runtime workload distribution demands. 
 