Chapter 1: Introduction to Cloud Computing  
 
1.1 History and Evolution of Cloud Computing  
The idea of computing in a “cloud” can be traced back to the origins of utility computing which was a 
concept proposed in 1961 by a computer scientist called John McCarthy. However, in 1969, Leonard 
Kleinrock, a chief scientist of the Advanced Research Projects Agency Network or ARPANET project 
that seeded the Internet, stated: 

“As of now, computer networks are still in their infancy, but as they grow up and become 
sophisticated, we will probably see the spread of ‘computer utilities’ ...”. 
The general public has been leveraging forms of Internet-based computer utilities since the mid-1990s 
through various incarnations of search engines (Yahoo!, Google); e-mail services (Hotmail, Gmail); 
open publishing platforms (MySpace, Facebook, YouTube), and other types of social media (Twitter, 
LinkedIn). Though consumer-centric, these services popularized and validated core concepts that form 
the basis of modern-day cloud computing. 
In the late 1990s, Salesforce.com pioneered the notion of bringing remotely provisioned services into 
the enterprise. In 2002, Amazon.com launched the Amazon Web Services (AWS) platform, a suite of 
enterprise-oriented services that provide remotely provisioned storage, computing resources, and 
business functionality. 

A slightly different understanding of the term “Network Cloud” or “Cloud” was introduced in the early 
1990s throughout the networking industry. It referred to an abstraction layer derived in the delivery 
methods of data across heterogeneous public and semi-public networks that were primarily packet-
switched, although cellular networks used the “Cloud” term as well. The networking method at this 
point supported the transmission of data from one end-point (local network) to the “Cloud” (wide 
area network) and then further decomposed to another intended end-point. This is relevant, as the 
networking industry still references the use of this term, and is considered an early adopter of the 
concepts that underlie utility computing. 

In 2006, the term “cloud computing” emerged in the commercial arena. It was during this time that 
Amazon launched its Elastic Compute Cloud (EC2) services that enabled organizations to “lease” 
computing capacity and processing power to run their enterprise applications. Google Apps also began 
providing browser-based enterprise applications in the same year, and three years later, the Google 
App Engine became another historic milestone. 