Limited portability between cloud providers 
Due to a lack of established industry standards within the cloud computing industry. it can be 
challenging to migrate from one cloud provider to another. Portability is a measure used to determine 
the impact of moving cloud consumer IT resources and data between clouds 
Multi-regional compliance and legal issues 
Cloud consumers will often not be aware of the physical location of their IT resources and data when 
hosted by public clouds. This can pose serious legal concerns pertaining to industry or government 
regulations that specify data privacy and storage policies. Another potential legal issue pertains to the 
accessibility and disclosure of data. Countries have laws that require some types of data to be 
disclosed to certain government agencies or to the subject of the data.  

Increased Security Vulnerabilities 

The moving of business data to the cloud means that the responsibility over data security becomes 
shared with the cloud provider. The remote usage of IT resources requires an expansion of trust 
boundaries by the cloud consumer to include the external cloud. It can be difficult to establish a 
security architecture that spans such a trust boundary without introducing vulnerabilities, unless cloud 
consumers and cloud providers happen to support the same or compatible security frameworks—
which is unlikely with public clouds. 
 
Vendor Lock-in 
It is very difficult for the customers to switch from one Cloud Service Provider (CSP) to another. It 
results in dependency on just a particular CSP for service. 
Insecure or incomplete data deletion  
It is possible that the data requested for deletion by a cloud consumer may not get deleted. It happens 
either because extra copies of data are stored but are not available at the time of deletion, or the disk 
that stores data of multiple tenants is destroyed. 

Interoperability 
Application on one platform should be able to incorporate services from other various platforms made 
possible via web services, but developing such web services is very complex. 
 