4.3.3 Virtualization Attack  
This Virtualization attack exploits vulnerabilities in the virtualization platform in order to jeopardize 
its confidentiality, integrity and availability. An attacker successfully accesses a virtual server to 
compromise its underlying physical server. In the case of a public cloud where single physical IT 
resource may be providing virtualized IT resources to multiple consumers, such an attack can have 
huge consequences.   
 
Fig 4.3: Virtualization attack 

4.3.4 Malicious Intermediary 
 This threat arises when messages are intercepted and altered by a malicious service agent thereby 
potentially compromising the message’s confidentiality and sometimes its integrity. It may also insert 
harmful data into the message before forwarding it to its destination.  
 
Fig 4.4: Malicious intermediary 
 
4.3.5 Overlapping Trust Boundaries 
If physical IT resources within a cloud are shared by different cloud service consumers, these cloud 
service consumers have overlapping trust boundaries.  Malicious cloud service consumers can target 
shared IT resources with the intention of compromising cloud consumers or other IT resources that 
share the same cloud boundary. This could result in some or all of the other cloud service consumers 
being impacted by the attack, and the attacker could use virtual IT resources against others that also 
share the same trust boundary.  
 
4.3.6 Flawed Implementation 
Sub-standard design, configuration and implementation of cloud service deployment can have 
adverse consequences on the system. Security flaws or operational weakness on the cloud provider’s 
software can be exploited to compromise integrity, confidentiality and available of the IT resources 
provided. 

Some other cloud security threats are;  
 Malware Injection 
 Insecure Application Programming Interface (API) 
 Insider Threats (Malicious insider) 
 Advanced persistent threats (APT) 
 
4.4 Mitigating Cloud Security Threats  
Cloud security threats can be mitigated by adopting the following practices;  

 Conduct a cloud security assessment regularly  
 Implement cloud security monitoring  
 Establish solid access management policies 
 Create a disaster recovery plan  
 Encryption  
 Raise employee awareness 