Object storage interfaces 
Various types of data can be referenced and stored as Web resources. This is referred to as object 
storage, which is based on technologies that can support a range of data and media types. Cloud 
Storage Device mechanisms that implement this interface can typically be accessed via REST or Web 
service-based cloud services using HTTP as the prime protocol. The Storage Networking Industry 
Association’s Cloud Data Management Interface (SNIA’s CDMI) supports the use of object storage 
interfaces. 

Database storage interfaces 
Cloud storage device mechanisms based on database storage interfaces typically support a query 
language in addition to basic storage operations. Storage management is carried out using a standard 
API or an administrative user-interface 
This classification of storage interface is divided into two main categories according to storage 
structure. They are Relational and Non-relational Data Storage  

 Relational Data Storage 
Traditionally, many on-premise IT environments store data using relational databases or relational 
database management systems (RDBMSs). Relational databases (or relational storage devices) rely on 
tables to organize similar data into rows and columns. Tables can have relationships with each other 
to give the data increased structure, to protect data integrity, and to avoid data redundancy (which is 
referred to as data normalization). Working with relational storage commonly involves the use of the 
industry standard Structured Query Language (SQL). Challenges with cloud-based relational databases 
commonly pertain to scaling and performance. Scaling a relational cloud storage device vertically can 
be more complex and cost-ineffective than horizontal scaling. Databases with complex relationships 
and/or containing large volumes of data can be afflicted with higher processing overhead and latency, 
especially when accessed remotely via cloud services. 
 Non-relational Data Storage 
Non-relational storage (also commonly referred to as NoSQL storage) moves away from the traditional 
relational database model in that it establishes a “looser” structure for stored data with less emphasis 
on defining relationships and realizing data normalization. The primary motivation for using non-
relational storage is to avoid the potential complexity and processing overhead that can be imposed 
by relational databases. Also, non-relational storage can be more horizontally scalable than relational 
storage. Cloud providers often offer non-relational storage that provides scalability and availability of 
stored data over multiple server environments 
 