In addition to cloud storage devices and virtual servers, which are commonly pooled mechanisms, the 
following mechanisms can also be part of this cloud architecture: 

• Audit Monitor – This mechanism monitors resource pool usage to ensure compliance with privacy 
and regulation requirements, especially when pools contain cloud storage devices or data loaded into 
memory. 
• Cloud Usage Monitor – Various cloud usage monitors are involved in the runtime tracking and 
synchronization that are required by the pooled IT resources and any underlying management 
systems. 
• Hypervisor – The hypervisor mechanism is responsible for providing virtual servers with access to 
resource pools, in addition to hosting the virtual servers and sometimes the resource pools 
themselves. 
• Logical Network Perimeter – The logical network perimeter is used to logically organize and isolate 
resource pools. 
• Pay-Per-Use Monitor – The pay-per-use monitor collects usage and billing information on how 
individual cloud consumers are allocated and use IT resources from various pools. 
• Remote Administration System – This mechanism is commonly used to interface with backend 
systems and programs in order to provide resource pool administration features via a front-end portal. 
• Resource Management System – The resource management system mechanism supplies cloud 
consumers with the tools and permission management options for administering resource pools. 
• Resource Replication – This mechanism is used to generate new instances of IT resources for 
resource pools.

5.4 Dynamic Scalability Architecture 
The dynamic scalability architecture is an architectural model based on a system of predefined scaling 
conditions that trigger the dynamic allocation of IT resources from resource pools. Dynamic allocation 
enables variable utilization as dictated by usage demand fluctuations, since unnecessary IT resources 
are efficiently reclaimed without requiring manual interaction 
The following types of dynamic scaling are commonly used: 
Dynamic Horizontal Scaling – IT resource instances are scaled out and in to handle fluctuating 
workloads. The automatic scaling listener monitors requests and signals resource replication to initiate 
IT resource duplication, as per requirements and permissions. 

Dynamic Vertical Scaling – IT resource instances are scaled up and down when there is a need to 
adjust the processing capacity of a single IT resource. For example, a virtual server that is being 
overloaded can have its memory dynamically increased or it may have a processing core added. 
Dynamic Relocation – The IT resource is relocated to a host with more capacity. For example, a 
database may need to be moved from a tape-based SAN storage device with 4 GB per second I/O 
capacity to another disk-based SAN storage device with 8 GB per second I/O capacity.  