5.5 Elastic Resource Capacity Architecture  
The elastic resource capacity architecture is primarily related to the dynamic provisioning of virtual 
servers, using a system that allocates and reclaims CPUs and RAM in immediate response to the 
fluctuating processing requirements of hosted IT resources.  

5.6 Service Load Balancing Architecture  

The service load balancing architecture can be considered a specialized variation of the workload 
distribution architecture that is geared specifically for scaling cloud service implementations. 
Redundant deployments of cloud services are created, with a load balancing system added to 
dynamically distribute workloads. 

The duplicate cloud service implementations are organized into a resource pool, while the load 
balancer is positioned as either an external or built-in component to allow the host servers to balance 
the workloads themselves. Depending on the anticipated workload and processing capacity of host 
server environments, multiple instances of each cloud service implementation can be generated as 
part of a resource pool that responds to fluctuating request volumes more efficiently. 
The load balancer can be positioned either independent of the cloud services and their host servers 
or built-in as part of the application or server’s environment. In the latter case, a primary server with 
the load balancing logic can communicate with neighboring servers to balance the workload.  

Fig 5.3: Load balancing Architecture 
 
5.7 Cloud Bursting Architecture  
The cloud bursting architecture establishes a form of dynamic scaling that scales or “bursts out” on-
premise IT resources into a cloud whenever pre-defined capacity thresholds have been reached. The 
corresponding cloud-based IT resources are redundantly pre-deployed but remain inactive until cloud 
bursting occurs. After they are no longer required, the cloud-based IT resources are released and the 
architecture “bursts in” back to the on-premise environment. 

Cloud bursting is a flexible scaling architecture that provides cloud consumers with the option of using 
cloud-based IT resources only to meet higher usage demands. The foundation of this architectural 
model is based on the automated scaling listener and resource replication mechanisms. 
 