Chapter Six: Software Testing  
 
6.1 Introduction to Software Testing 
Testing is intended to show that a program does what it is intended to do and to discover program 
defects before it is put into use. When you test software, you execute a program using artificial 
data. You check the results of the test run for errors, anomalies, or information about the 
program’s non-functional attributes.  
Testing shows that a program does what it was created to do, and that it has no errors. Software 
testing is done prior to deployment to the client’s environment and is conducted using sample 
data which resembles the actual data which will be used by the users of the system. The test 
results are checked for errors, unexpected behaviour or information about the program’s non -
functional attributes. 

When you test software, you are trying to do two things: 
 
i. Demonstrate to the developer and the customer that the software meets its 
requirements. For custom software, this means that there should be at least one 
test for every requirement in the requirements document. For generic software 
products, it means that there should be tests for all of the system features that will 
be included in the product release. You may also test combinations of features to 
check for unwanted interactions between them. 
 
ii. Find inputs or input sequences where the behavior of the software is incorrect, 
undesirable, or does not conform to its specification. These are caused by defects 
(bugs) in the software. When you test software to find defects, you are trying to 
root out undesirable system behavior such as system crashes, unwanted 
interactions with other systems, incorrect computations, and data corruption. 
 
The first of these is validation testing, where you expect the system to perform correctly using a 
set of test cases that reflect the system’s expected use. The second is defect testing, where the 
test cases are designed to expose defects. The test cases in defect testing can be deliberately 
obscure and need not reflect how the system is normally used. Of course, there is no definite 
boundary between these two approaches to testing. During validation testing, you will find 
defects in the system; during defect testing, some of the tests will show that the program meets 
its requirements. 
Testing is part of a broader process of software verification and validation (V & V). Verification 
and validation are not the same thing, although they are often confused. 
 