4.7 The Software Requirement Document 

The software requirements document (sometimes called the software requirements specification 
or SRS) is an official statement of what the system developers should implement. It may include 
both the user requirements for a system and a detailed specification of the system requirements. 
Sometimes the user and system requirements are integrated into a single description. In other 
cases, the user requirements are described in an introductory chapter in the system requirements 
specification.  

Requirements documents are essential when systems are outsourced for development, when 
different teams develop different parts of the system, and when a detailed analysis of the 
requirements is mandatory. In other circumstances, such as software product or business system 
development, a detailed requirements document may not be needed. Agile methods argue that 
requirements change so rapidly that a requirements document is out of date as soon as it is 
written, so the effort is largely wasted. Rather than a formal document, agile approaches often 
collect user requirements incrementally and write these on cards or whiteboards as short user 
stories. The user then prioritizes these stories for implementation in the next increment of the 
system.  
For business systems where requirements are unstable, this approach is a good one. However, it 
is still useful to write a short supporting document that defines the business and dependability 
requirements for the system; it is easy to forget the requirements that apply to the system as a 
whole when focusing on the functional requirements for the next system release. The 
requirements document has a diverse set of users, ranging from the senior management of the 
organization that is paying for the system to the engineers responsible for developing the 
software.  

The Figure below shows possible users of the document and how they use it.. 
Figure 4.7: Users of a Requirements document (Sommerville,  I.  2021)   
The diversity of possible users means that the requirements document has to be a compromise. 
It has to describe the requirements for customers, define the requirements in precise detail for 
developers and testers, as well as include information about future system evolution. Information 
on anticipated changes helps system designers to avoid restrictive design decisions and 
maintenance engineers to adapt the system to new requirements. 

The level of detail that you should include in a requirements document depends on the type of 
system that is being developed and the development process used. Critical systems need detailed 
requirements because safety and security have to be analyzed in detail to find possible 
requirements errors. When the system is to be developed by a separate company (e.g., through 
outsourcing), the system specifications need to be detailed and precise. If an in-house, iterative 
development process is used, the requirements document can be less detailed. Details can be 
added to the requirements and ambiguities resolved during development of the system. 
 