3.3.1 User Stories  
Software requirements always change. To handle these changes, agile methods do not have a 
separate requirement engineering activity. Rather, they integrate requirements elicitation with 
development. To make this easier, the idea of “user stories” was developed where a user story is 
a scenario of use that might be experienced by a system user. As far as possible, the system 
customer works closely with the development team and discusses these scenarios with other 
team members. Together, they develop a “story card” that briefly describes a story that 
encapsulates the customer needs. 
 
The development team then aims to implement that scenario in a future release of the software. 
User stories may be used in planning system iterations. Once the story cards have been 
developed, the development team breaks these down into tasks, and estimates the effort and 
resources required for implementing each task. This usually involves discussions with the 
customer to refine the requirements 
The customer then prioritizes the stories for implementation, choosing those stories that can be 
used immediately to deliver useful business support. The intention is to identify useful 
functionality that can be implemented in about two weeks, when the next release of the system 
is made available to the customer. Of course, as requirements change, the unimplemented stories 
change or may be discarded. If changes are required for a system that has already been delivered, 
new story cards are developed and again, the customer decides whether these changes should 
have priority over new functionality. 

The idea of user stories is a powerful one—people find it much easier to relate to these stories 
than to a conventional requirements document or use cases. User stories can be helpful in getting 
users involved in suggesting requirements during an initial pre-development requirements 
elicitation activity. The principal problem with user stories is completeness. It is difficult to judge 
if enough user stories have been developed to cover all of the essential requirements of a system. 
It is also difficult to judge if a single story gives a true picture of an activity. Experienced users are 
often so familiar with their work that they leave things out when describing it.