4.8 Requirements Validation  

Requirements validation is the process of checking that requirements define the system that the 
customer really wants. It overlaps with elicitation and analysis, as it is concerned with finding 
problems with the requirements. Requirements validation is critically important because errors 
in a requirements document can lead to extensive rework costs when these problems are 
discovered during development or after the system is in service. 
 
The cost of fixing a requirements problem by making a system change is usually much greater 
than repairing design or coding errors. A change to the requirements usually means that the 
system design and implementation must also be changed. Furthermore, the system must then be 
retested. During the requirements validation process, different types of checks should be carried 
out on the requirements in the requirements document. 
 
These checks include; 

• Validity checks These check that the requirements reflect the real needs of sys-tem users. 
Because of changing circumstances, the user requirements may have changed since they 
were originally elicited. 
• Consistency checks Requirements in the document should not conflict. That is, there 
should not be contradictory constraints or different descriptions of the same system 
function. 

• Completeness checks The requirements document should include requirements that 
define all functions and the constraints intended by the system user.  
• Realism checks By using knowledge of existing technologies, the requirements should be 
checked to ensure that they can be implemented within the proposed budget for the 
system. These checks should also take account of the budget and schedule for the system 
development. 
• Verifiability To reduce the potential for dispute between customer and contrac-tor, system 
requirements should always be written so that they are verifiable. This means that you 
should be able to write a set of tests that can demonstrate that the delivered system 
meets each specified requirement. 

A number of requirements validation techniques can be used individually or in conjunction with 
one another: 

• Requirements reviews: The requirements are analyzed systematically by a team of 
reviewers who check for errors and inconsistencies.  
• Prototyping This involves developing an executable model of a system and using this with 
end-users and customers to see if it meets their needs and expectations. Stakeholders 
experiment with the system and feed back requirements changes to the development 
team. 
• Test-case generation Requirements should be testable. If the tests for the requirements 
are devised as part of the validation process, this often reveals requirements problems. If 
a test is difficult or impossible to design, this usually means that the requirements will be 
difficult to implement and should be reconsidered. Developing tests from the user 
requirements before any code is written is an integral part of test-driven development.