8.3 Project Planning   

Project planning is one of the most important jobs of a software project manager. As a manager, 
you have to break down the work into parts and assign them to project team members, anticipate 
problems that might arise, and prepare tentative solutions to those problems. The project plan, 
which is created at the start of a project and updated as the project progresses, is used to show 
how the work will be done and to assess progress on the project. 
 
Project planning takes place at three stages in a project life cycle: 
 
• At the proposal stage, when you are bidding for a contract to develop or provide a 
software system. You need a plan at this stage to help you decide if you have the resources 
to complete the work and to work out the price that you should quote to a customer. 
• During the project startup phase, when you have to plan who will work on the project, 
how the project will be broken down into increments, how resources will be allocated 
across your company, and so on. Here, you have more information than at the proposal 
stage, and you can therefore refine the initial effort estimates that you have prepared. 
• Periodically throughout the project, when you update your plan to reflect new 
information about the software and its development. You learn more about the system 
being implemented and the capabilities of your development team. As software 
requirements change, the work breakdown has to be altered and the schedule extended. 
This information allows you to make more accurate esti-mates of how long the work will 
take.

8.4 Software Pricing  
In principle, the price of a software system developed for a customer is simply the cost of 
development plus profit for the developer. In practice, however, the relationship between the 
project cost and the price quoted to the customer is not usually so simple. When calculating a 
price, you take broader organizational, economic, political, and business considerations into 
account. You need to think about organizational concerns, the risks associated with the project, 
and the type of contract that will be used.  These issues may cause the price to be adjusted 
upward or downward.  

Figure 8.3: Factors affecting Software pricing (Sommerville,  I.  2021)  