All of the agile methods that have been proposed share a number of common characteristics: 
 
i. The processes of specification, design and implementation are interleaved. There 
is no detailed system specification, and design documentation is minimized or 
generated automatically by the programming environment used to implement the 
system. The user requirements document is an outline definition of the most 
important characteristics of the system. 

ii. The system is developed in a series of increments. End-users and other system 
stakeholders are involved in specifying and evaluating each increment. They may 
propose changes to the software and new requirements that should be 
implemented in a later version of the system 
 
iii. Extensive tool support is used to support the development process. Tools that 
may be used include automated testing tools, tools to support configuration 
management, and system integration and tools to automate user interface 
production.

Agile methods are incremental development methods in which the increments are small, and, 
typically, new releases of the system are created and made available to customers every two or 
three weeks. They involve customers in the development process to get rapid feedback on 
changing requirements. They minimize documentation by using informal communications rather 
than formal meetings with written documents.  
Agile approaches to software development consider design and implementation to be the central 
activities in the software process. They incorporate other activities, such as requirements 
elicitation and testing, into design and implementation. By contrast, a plan-driven approach to 
software engineering identifies separate stages in the software process with outputs associated 
with each stage. The outputs from one stage are used as a basis for planning the following process 
activity.

Figure 3.1: Plan-driven approach and Agile Development (Sommerville,  I.  2021)   
Figure 3.1 shows the essential distinctions between plan-driven and agile approaches to system 
specification. In a plan-driven software development process, iteration occurs within activities, 
with formal documents used to communicate between stages of the process. For example, the 
requirements will evolve, and, ultimately, a requirements specification will be produced. This is 
then an input to the design and implementation process. In an agile approach, iteration occurs 
across activities. Therefore, the requirements and the design are developed together rather than 
separately.