8.2 Risk Management   
 
Verification and validation processes are concerned with checking that software being developed 
meets its specification and delivers the functionality expected by the people paying for the 
software. These checking processes start as soon as requirements become available and continue 
through all stages of the development process.  
Risk management is one of the most important jobs for a project manager. You can think of a risk 
as something that you’d prefer not to have happen. Risks may threaten the pro-ject, the software 
that is being developed, or the organization. Risk management involves anticipating risks that 
might affect the project schedule or the quality of the software being developed, and then taking 
action to avoid these risks (Hall 1998; Ould 1999). Risks can be categorized according to type of 
risk (technical, organizational, etc.).  

A complementary classification is to classify risks according to what these risks affect: 
 
• Project risks affect the project schedule or resources. An example of a project risk is the 
loss of an experienced system architect. Finding a replacement architect with appropriate 
skills and experience may take a long time; consequently, it will take longer to develop the 
software design than originally planned. 
 
• Product risks affect the quality or performance of the software being developed. An 
example of a product risk is the failure of a purchased component to perform as expected. 
This may affect the overall performance of the system so that it is slower than expected. 
• Business risks affect the organization developing or procuring the software. For example, 
a competitor introducing a new product is a business risk. The intro-duction of a 
competitive product may mean that the assumptions made about sales of existing 
software products may be unduly optimistic.  
 
Software risk management is important because of the inherent uncertainties in software 
development. These uncertainties stem from loosely defined requirements, requirements 
changes due to changes in customer needs, difficulties in estimating the time and resources 
required for software development, and differences in individual skills. 
 You have to anticipate risks, understand their impact on the project, the product, and the 
business, and take steps to avoid these risks. You may need to draw up contingency plans so that, 
if the risks do occur, you can take immediate recovery action.  
An outline of the process of risk management is presented in the Figure below.  It involves several 
stages; 