4.2.2 Non-functional Requirements  
Non-functional requirements, as the name suggests, are requirements that are not directly 
concerned with the specific services delivered by the system to its users. These non-functional 
requirements usually specify or constrain characteristics of the system as a whole. They may 
relate to emergent system properties such as reliability, response time, and memory use. 
 Alternatively, they may define constraints on the system implementation, such as the capabilities 
of I/O devices or the data representations used in interfaces with other systems.  
Non-functional requirements are often more critical than individual functional requirements. 
System users can usually find ways to work around a system function that doesn’t really meet 
their needs. However, failing to meet a non-functional requirement can mean that the whole 
system is unusable. For example, if an aircraft system does not meet its reliability requirements, 
it will not be certified as safe for operation; if an embedded control system fails to meet its 
performance requirements, the control functions will not operate correctly.  
While it is often possible to identify which system components implement specific functional 
requirements (e.g., there may be formatting components that implement reporting 
requirements), this is often more difficult with non-functional requirements.  
The implementation of these requirements may be spread throughout the system, for two 
reasons: 
 
• Non-functional requirements may affect the overall architecture of a system rather than 
the individual components. For example, to ensure that performance requirements are 
met in an embedded system, you may have to organize the system to minimize 
communications between components. 
 
• An individual non-functional requirement, such as a security requirement, may generate 
several, related functional requirements that define new system services that are required 
if the non-functional requirement is to be implemented. In addition, it may also generate 
requirements that constrain existing requirements; for example, it may limit access to 
information in the system.