7.3 Software Re-engineering  
Software maintenance involves understanding the program that has to be changed and then 
implementing any required changes. However, many systems, especially older legacy systems, are 
difficult to understand and change. The programs may have been optimized for performance or 
space utilization at the expense of under-standability, or, over time, the initial program structure 
may have been corrupted by a series of changes. To make legacy software systems easier to 
maintain, you can reengineer these systems to improve their structure and understandability.  
 
Reengineering may involve redocumenting the system, refactoring the system architecture, 
translating programs to a modern programming language, or modifying and updating the 
structure and values of the system’s data. The functionality of the software is not changed, and, 
normally, you should try to avoid making major changes to the system architecture. 

Reengineering has two important advantages over replacement: 
 
• Reduced risk:  There is a high risk in redeveloping business-critical software. Errors may 
be made in the system specification or there may be development problems. Delays in 
introducing the new software may mean that business is lost and extra costs are incurred. 
• Reduced cost: The cost of reengineering may be significantly less than the cost of 
developing new software. 

Figure 7.2: The Re-engineering process 
 
This is a general model of the reengineering process. The input to the process is a legacy program, 
and the output is an improved and restructured version of the same program. The activities in 
this reengineering process are: 

• Source code translation Using a translation tool, you can convert the program from an old 
programming language to a more modern version of the same lan-guage or to a different 
language. 
• Reverse engineering:  The program is analyzed and information extracted from it. This 
helps to document its organization and functionality. Again, this process is usually 
completely automated. 
• Program structure improvement: The control structure of the program is analyzed and 
modified to make it easier to read and understand. This can be partially automated, but 
some manual intervention is usually required. 
• Program modularization Related parts of the program are grouped together, and, where 
appropriate, redundancy is removed. In some cases, this stage may involve architectural 
refactoring (e.g., a system that uses several different data stores may be refactored to use 
a single repository). This is a manual process. 
• Data reengineering: The data processed by the program is changed to reflect program 
changes. This may mean redefining database schemas and converting existing databases 
to the new structure. You should usually also clean up the data. This involves finding and 
correcting mistakes, removing duplicate records, and so on. This can be a very expensive 
and prolonged process. 
Program reengineering may not necessarily require all of the steps in the Figure above. You don’t 
need source code translation if you still use the application’s programming language. If you can 
do all reengineering automatically, then recovering documentation through reverse engineering 
may be unnecessary. Data reengineering is required only if the data structures in the program 
change during system reengineering. 