Chapter Five: Software Design and Implementation 
 
5.1 Introduction to Software Design and Implementation 
Software design and implementation is the stage in the software engineering process at which an 
executable software system is developed. For some simple systems, software engineering means 
software design and implementation and all other soft-ware engineering activities are merged 
with this process. However, for large systems, software design and implementation is only one of 
a number of software engineering processes (requirements engineering, verification and 
validation, etc.).  

Software design and implementation activities are invariably interleaved. Software design is a 
creative activity in which you identify software components and their relationships, based on a 
customer’s requirements. Implementation is the process of realizing the design as a program. 
Sometimes there is a separate design stage, and this design is modeled and documented. At other 
times, a design is in the programmer’s head or roughly sketched on a whiteboard or sheets of 
paper. Design is about how to solve a problem, so there is always a design process.  
 
However, it isn’t always necessary or appropriate to describe the design in detail using the UML 
or other design description language. 

Design and implementation are closely linked, and you should normally take implementation 
issues into account when developing a design. For example, using the UML to document a design 
may be the right thing to do if you are programming in an object-oriented language such as Java 
or C#. It is less useful sometimes if you are developing using a dynamically typed language like 
Python. There is no point in using the UML if you are implementing your system by configuring 
an off-the-shelf package. 

One of the most important implementation decisions that has to be made at an early stage of a 
software project is whether to build or to buy the application soft-ware. For many types of 
application, it is now possible to buy off-the-shelf application systems that can be adapted and 
tailored to the users’ requirements. For example, if you want to implement a medical records 
system, you can buy a package that is already used in hospitals. It is usually cheaper and faster to 
use this approach rather than developing a new system in a conventional programming language 
When you develop an application system by reusing an off-the-shelf product, the design process 
focuses on how to configure the system product to meet the application requirements. You don’t 
develop design models of the system, such as models of the system objects and their interactions