1.2 History of Software Engineering 
The notion of software engineering was first proposed in 1968 at a conference held to discuss 
what was then called the software crisis (Naur and Randell 1969). It became clear that individual 
approaches to program development did not scale up to large and complex software systems. 
These were unreliable, cost more than expected, and were delivered late. Throughout the 1970s 
and 1980s, a variety of new software engineering techniques and methods were developed, such 
as structured programming, information hiding, and object-oriented development. Tools and 
standard notations were developed which are the basis of today’s software engineering. 

1.3 Professional Software Development 
Lots of people write programs. People in business write spreadsheet programs to simplify their 
jobs; scientists and engineers write programs to process their experimental data; hobbyists write 
programs for their own interest and enjoyment. However, most software development is a 
professional activity in which software is developed for business purposes, for inclusion in other 
devices, or as software products such as information systems and computer-aided design 
systems.  
 
The key distinctions are that professional software is intended for use by someone apart from its 
developer and that teams rather than individuals usually develop the software. It is maintained 
and changed throughout its life. 
 
Software Engineering is intended to support professional software development rather than 
individual programming. It includes techniques that support program specification, design, and 
evolution, none of which are normally relevant for personal software development. 
 
Many people think that software is simply another word for computer programs. However, when 
we are talking about software engineering, software is not just the programs themselves but also 
all associated documentation, libraries, support websites, and configuration data that are needed 
to make these programs useful. A professionally developed software system is often more than 
a single program. A system may consist of several separate programs and configuration files that 
are used to set up these programs. It may include system documentation, which describes the 
structure of the system, user documentation, which explains how to use the system, and 
websites for users to download recent product information.