2.5 Software Validation  
Software validation or, more generally, verification and validation (V & V) is intended to show that 
a system both conforms to its specification and meets the expectations of the system customer. 
Program testing, where the system is executed using simulated test data, is the principal 
validation technique.  

Validation may also involve checking processes, such as inspections and reviews, at each stage of 
the software process from user requirements definition to program development. However, most 
V & V time and effort is spent on program testing. Except for small programs, systems should not 
be tested as a single, monolithic unit.  
 
The stages in the testing process are;  
i. Component testing: The components making up the system are tested by the 
people developing the system. Each component is tested independently, without 
other system components. Components may be simple entities such as functions 
or object classes or may be coherent groupings of these entities. Test automation 
tools, such as JUnit for Java, that can rerun tests when new versions of the 
component are created, are commonly used.  
 
ii. System testing:  System components are integrated to create a complete system. 
This process is concerned with finding errors that result from unanticipated 
interactions between components and component interface problems. It is also 
concerned with showing that the system meets its functional and non-functional 
requirements and testing the emergent system properties. For large systems, this 
may be a multistage process where components are integrated to form 
subsystems that are individually tested before these subsystems are integrated to 
form the final system. 
 
iii. Customer testing: This is the final stage in the testing process before the system is 
accepted for operational use. The system is tested by the system customer (or 
potential customer) rather than with simulated test data. For custom-built 
software, customer testing may reveal errors and omissions in the system 
requirements definition, because the real data exercise the system in different 
ways from the test data. Customer testing may also reveal requirements problems 
where the system’s facilities do not really meet the users’ needs or the system 
performance is unacceptable. For products, customer testing shows how well the 
software product meets the customer’s needs. 

Ideally, component defects are discovered early in the testing process, and interface problems 
are found when the system is integrated. However, as defects are discovered, the program must 
be debugged, and this may require other stages in the testing process to be repeated. Errors in 
program components may come to light during system testing. The process is therefore an 
iterative one with information being fed back from later stages to earlier parts of the process. 
Normally, component testing is simply part of the normal development process. 
 
Programmers make up their own test data and incrementally test the code as it is developed. The 
programmer knows the component and is therefore the best person to generate test cases 
If an incremental approach to development is used, each increment should be tested as it is 
developed, with these tests based on the requirements for that increment. In test-driven 
development, which is a normal part of agile processes, tests are developed along with the 
requirements before development starts. This helps the testers and developers to understand the 
requirements and ensures that there are no delays as test cases are created.  
When a plan-driven software process is used (e.g., for critical systems develop-ment), testing is 
driven by a set of test plans. An independent team of testers works from these test plans, which 
have been developed from the system specification and design.  
 
Figure 2.6: Testing phases in a plan-driven software process (Sommerville,  I.  2021)   
 
When a system is to be marketed as a software product, a testing process called beta testing is 
often used. Beta testing involves delivering a system to a number of potential customers who 
agree to use that system. They report problems to the sys-tem developers. This exposes the 
product to real use and detects errors that may not have been anticipated by the product 
developers. After this feedback, the software product may be modified and released for further 
beta testing or general sal