8.9 Reviews and Inspections  
Reviews and inspections are quality assurance activities that check the quality of project 
deliverables. This involves checking the software, its documentation, and records of the process 
to discover errors and omissions as well as standards violations.  
Reviews and inspections are used alongside program testing as part of the general process of 
software verification and validation. During a review, several people examine the software and its 
associated docu-mentation, looking for potential problems and nonconformance with standards. 
The review team makes informed judgments about the level of quality of the software or project 
documents. Project managers may then use these assessments to make planning decisions and 
allocate resources to the development process.  
Quality reviews are based on documents that have been produced during the software 
development process. As well as software specifications, designs, code, process models, test 
plans, configuration management procedures, process standards, and user manuals may all be 
reviewed. The review should check the consistency and completeness of the documents or code 
under review and, if standards have been defined, make sure that these quality standards have 
been followed.  

Reviews are not just about checking conformance to standards. They are also used to help 
discover problems and omissions in the software or project documentation. The conclusions of 
the review should be formally recorded as part of the quality management process. If problems 
have been discovered, the reviewers’ comments should be passed to the author of the software 
or whoever is responsible for correcting errors or omissions. 
The purpose of reviews and inspections is to improve software quality, not to assess the 
performance of people in the development team. Reviewing is a public process of error detection, 
compared with the more private component-testing process. Inevitably, mistakes that are made 
by individuals are revealed to the whole programming team. To ensure that all developers engage 
constructively with the review process, project managers have to be sensitive to individual 
concerns. They must develop a working culture that provides support without blame when errors 
are discovered.  
Quality reviews are not management progress reviews, although information about the software 
quality may be used in making management decisions. Progress reviews compare the actual 
progress in a software project against the planned progress. Their prime concern is whether or 
not the project will deliver useful software on time and on budget. Progress reviews take external 
factors into account, and changed circumstances may mean that software under development is 
no longer required or has to be radically changed. Projects that have developed high-quality 
software may have to be canceled because of changes to the business or its operating 
environment. 