Chapter Seven: Software Maintenance  
 
7.1 Introduction to Software Maintenance 
Software maintenance is the general process of changing a system after it has been delivered. 
The term is usually applied to custom software, where separate development groups are involved 
before and after delivery. The changes made to the software may be simple changes to correct 
coding errors, more extensive changes to correct design errors, or significant enhancements to 
correct specification errors or to accommodate new requirements. Changes are implemented by 
modifying existing system components and, where necessary, by adding new components to the 
system. 

7.2 Software Maintenance Types 

There are three different types of software maintenance, these are described below;  

• Fault repairs to fix bugs and vulnerabilities. Coding errors are usually relatively cheap to 
correct; design errors are more expensive because they may involve rewriting several 
program components. Requirements errors are the most expensive to repair because 
extensive system redesign may be necessary. 
• Environmental adaptation to adapt the software to new platforms and environments. This 
type of maintenance is required when some aspect of a system’s environment, such as 
the hardware, the platform operating system, or other sup-port software, changes. 
Application systems may have to be modified to cope with these environmental changes. 
• Functionality addition to add new features and to support new requirements. This type of 
maintenance is necessary when system requirements change in response to 
organizational or business change. The scale of the changes required to the software is 
often much greater than for the other types of maintenance. 
  
In practice, there is no clear-cut distinction between these types of maintenance. When you adapt 
a system to a new environment, you may add functionality to take advantage of new 
environmental features. Software faults are often exposed because users use the system in 
unanticipated ways. Changing the system to accommodate their way of working is the best way 
to fix these faults. 
 
These types of maintenance are generally recognized, but different people some-times give them 
different names. “Corrective maintenance” is universally used to refer to maintenance for fault 
repair. However, “adaptive maintenance” sometimes means adapting to a new environment and 
sometimes means adapting the software to new requirements. “Perfective maintenance” 
sometimes means perfecting the soft-ware by implementing new requirements; in other cases, it 
means maintaining the functionality of the system but improving its structure and its 
performance 