5.5 Open-source Development  
Open-source development is an approach to software development in which the source code of 
a software system is published and volunteers are invited to participate in the development 
process (Raymond 2001). Its roots are in the Free Software Foundation (www.fsf.org), which 
advocates that source code should not be proprietary but rather should always be available for 
users to examine and modify as they wish. There was an assumption that the code would be 
controlled and developed by a small core group, rather than users of the code. 
 
Open-source software extended this idea by using the Internet to recruit a much larger population 
of volunteer developers. Many of them are also users of the code. In principle at least, any 
contributor to an open-source project may report and fix bugs and propose new features and 
functionality.  
 
However, in practice, successful open-source systems still rely on a core group of developers who 
control changes to the software. Open-source software is the backbone of the Internet and 
software engineering. The Linux operating system is the most widely used server system, as is the 
open-source Apache web server. Other important and universally used open-source products are 
Java, the Eclipse IDE, and the mySQL database management system. The Android operating 
system is installed on millions of mobile devices. Major players in the computer industry such as 
IBM and Oracle, support the open-source movement and base their software on open-source 
products. Thousands of other, lesser-known open-source systems and components may also be 
used. 

It is usually cheap or even free to acquire open-source software. You can normally download 
open-source software without charge. However, if you want documentation and support, then 
you may have to pay for this, but costs are usually fairly low. The other key benefit of using open-
source products is that widely used open-source systems are very reliable. They have a large 
population of users who are willing to fix problems themselves rather than report these problems 
to the developer and wait for a new release of the system. Bugs are discovered and repaired more 
quickly than is usually possible with proprietary software. 
 
For a company involved in software development, there are two open-source issues that have to 
be considered: 
• Should the product that is being developed make use of open-source components? 
• Should an open-source approach be used for its own software development? 
 
The answers to these questions depend on the type of software that is being developed and the 
background and experience of the development team. 