3.3  Agile Development Techniques  
The ideas underlying agile methods were developed around the same time by a number of 
different people in the 1990s. However, perhaps the most significant approach to changing 
software development culture was the development of Extreme Programming (XP). The name 
was coined by Kent Beck because the approach was developed by pushing recognized good 
practice, such as iterative development, to “extreme” levels. 
 
For example, in XP, several new versions of a system may be developed by different programmers, 
integrated, and tested in a day. In XP, requirements are expressed as scenarios (called user 
stories), which are implemented directly as a series of tasks. Programmers work in pairs and 
develop tests for each task before writing the code. All tests must be successfully executed when 
new code is integrated into the system. There is a short time gap between releases of the system. 
 
Extreme programming was controversial as it introduced a number of agile practices that were 
quite different from the development practice of that time.  
These practices reflect the principles of the agile manifesto as outlined below;  

i. Incremental development is supported through small, frequent releases of the 
system. Requirements are based on simple customer stories or scenarios that are 
used as a basis for deciding what functionality should be included in a system 
increment. 
 
ii. Customer involvement is supported through the continuous engagement of the 
customer in the development team. The customer representative takes part in the 
development and is responsible for defining acceptance tests for the system. 
 
iii. People, not process, are supported through pair programming, collective 
ownership of the system code, and a sustainable development process that does 
not involve excessively long working hours. 
 
iv. Change is embraced through regular system releases to customers, test-first 
development, refactoring to avoid code degeneration, and continuous integration 
of new functionality. 
 
v. Maintaining simplicity is supported by constant refactoring that improves code 
quality and by using simple designs that do not unnecessarily anticipate future 
changes to the system. 
 
In practice, the application of Extreme Programming as originally proposed has proved to be more 
difficult than anticipated. It cannot be readily integrated with the management practices and 
culture of most businesses. Therefore, companies adopt-ing agile methods pick and choose those 
XP practices that are most appropriate for their way of working. Sometimes these are 
incorporated into their own development processes but, more commonly, they are used in 
conjunction with a management-focused agile method such as Scrum.  
 
Table 3.2: Extreme programming practices