5.2.2 Architectural Design 

Once the interactions between the software system and the system’s environment have been 
defined, you use this information as a basis for designing the system archi-tecture. Of course, you 
need to combine this knowledge with your general knowl-edge of the principles of architectural 
design and with more detailed domain knowledge. You identify the major components that make 
up the system and their interactions. You may then design the system organization using an 
architectural pattern such as a layered or client–server model. 
The high-level architectural design for the weather station software is shown in Figure 5.2 below.  
The weather station is composed of independent subsystems that communicate by broadcasting 
messages on a common infrastructure, shown as Communication link in the Figure . Each 
subsystem listens for messages on that infrastructure and picks up the messages that are 
intended for them. This “listener model” is a commonly used architec-tural style for distributed 
systems. 

Figure 5.2: Architecture of Data collection system (Sommerville,  I.  2021)   
 
Figure 5.2 above shows the architecture of the data collection subsystem, which is included in 
Figure 5.1. The Transmitter and Receiver objects are concerned with managing communications, 
and the WeatherData object encapsulates the information that is collected from the 
instruments and transmitted to the weather information system. 

5.2.3 Object Class Identification  
By this stage in the design process, you should have some ideas about the essential objects in the 
system that you are designing. As your understanding of the design develops, you refine these 
ideas about the system objects. The use case description helps to identify objects and operations 
in the system.  
 
From the description of the Report weather use case, it is obvious that you will need to implement 
objects representing the instruments that collect weather data and an object representing the 
summary of the weather data. You also usually need a high-level system object or objects that 
encapsulate the system interactions defined in the use cases. With these objects in mind, you can 
start to identify the general object classes in the system. As object-oriented design evolved in the 
1980s, various ways of identifying object classes in object-oriented systems were suggested: 
 
• Use a grammatical analysis of a natural language description of the system to be 
constructed. Objects and attributes are nouns; operations or services are verbs (Abbott 
1983). 
• Use tangible entities (things) in the application domain such as aircraft, roles such as 
manager, events such as request, interactions such as meetings, locations such as offices, 
organizational units such as companies, and so on (Wirfs-Brock, Wilkerson, and Weiner 
1990). 
• Use a scenario-based analysis where various scenarios of system use are identified and 
analyzed in turn. As each scenario is analyzed, the team responsible for the analysis must 
identify the required objects, attributes, and operations (Beck and Cunningham 1989). 
 