4.9 Requirements Change 
 
The requirements for large software systems are always changing. One reason for the frequent 
changes is that these systems are often developed to address “wicked” problems—problems that 
cannot be completely defined (Rittel and Webber 1973). Because the problem cannot be fully 
defined, the software requirements are bound to be incomplete.  
During the software development process, the stakeholders’ understanding of the problem is 
constantly changing (Figure 4.18). The system requirements must then evolve to reflect this 
changed problem understanding. Once a system has been installed and is regularly used, new 
requirements inevitably emerge. This is partly a consequence of errors and omissions in the 
original requirements that have to be corrected. However, most changes to system requirements 
arise because of changes to the business environment of the system: 
 
• The business and technical environment of the system always changes after installation. 
New hardware may be introduced and existing hardware updated. It may be necessary to 
interface the system with other systems. Business priorities may change (with consequent 
changes in the system support required), and new legislation and regulations may be 
introduced that require system compliance. 
• The people who pay for a system and the users of that system are rarely the same people. 
System customers impose requirements because of organizational and budgetary 
constraints. These may conflict with end-user requirements, and, after delivery, new 
features may have to be added for user support if the system is to meet its goals. 
• Large systems usually have a diverse stakeholder community, with stakeholders having 
different requirements. Their priorities may be conflicting or contradictory. The final 
system requirements are inevitably a compromise, and some stakeholders have to be 
given priority. With experience, it is often discovered that the balance of support given to 
different stakeholders has to be changed and the requirements re-prioritized.

As requirements are evolving, you need to keep track of individual requirements and maintain 
links between dependent requirements so that you can assess the impact of requirements 
changes. You therefore need a formal process for making change proposals and linking these to 
system requirements. This process of “requirements management” should start as soon as a draft 
version of the requirements document is available. 
 
Agile development processes have been designed to cope with requirements that change during 
the development process. In these processes, when a user proposes a requirement change, this 
change does not go through a formal change management process. Rather, the user has to 
prioritize that change and, if it is high priority, decide what system features that were planned for 
the next iteration should be dropped for the change to be implemented. 
 
The problem with this approach is that users are not necessarily the best people to decide on 
whether or not a requirements change is cost-effective. In systems with multiple stakeholders, 
changes will benefit some stakeholders and not others. It is often better for an independent 
authority, who can balance the needs of all stakeholders, to decide on the changes that should 
be accepted 