Because of these issues, it is not surprising that some software projects are late, overbudget, 
and behind schedule. Software systems are often new, very complex, and technically 
innovative 
 
It is impossible to write a standard job description for a software project manager. The job 
varies tremendously depending on the organization and the software being developed. Some 
of the most important factors that affect how software projects are managed are: 

• Company size:  Small companies can operate with informal management and team 
communications and do not need formal policies and management struc-tures. They 
have less management overhead than larger organizations. In larger organizations, 
management hierarchies, formal reporting and budgeting, and approval processes 
must be followed. 
• Software customers:  If the customer is an internal customer (as is the case for 
software product development), then customer communications can be informal and 
there is no need to fit in with the customer’s ways of working. If custom software is 
being developed for an external customer, agreement has to be reached on more 
formal communication channels. If the customer is a govern-ment agency, the 
software company must operate according to the agency’s policies and procedures, 
which are likely to be bureaucratic. 
 
• Software size: Small systems can be developed by a small team, which can get together 
in the same room to discuss progress and other management issues. Large systems 
usually need multiple development teams that may be geographically distributed and 
in different companies. The project manager has to coordinate the activities of these 
teams and arrange for them to communicate with each other. 
• Software type:  If the software being developed is a consumer product, formal records 
of project management decisions are unnecessary. On the other hand, if a safety-
critical system is being developed, all project management decisions should be 
recorded and justified as these may affect the safety of the system. 
 
• Organizational culture Some organizations have a culture that is based on supporting 
and encouraging individuals, while others are group focused. Large organizations are 
often bureaucratic. Some organizations have a culture of taking risks, whereas others 
are risk averse. 
• Software development processes Agile processes typically try to operate with 
“lightweight” management. More formal processes require management monitoring 
to ensure that the development team is following the defined process. 

These factors mean that project managers in different organizations may work in quite different 
ways. However, a number of fundamental project management activities are common to all 
organizations: 

• Project planning Project managers are responsible for planning, estimating, and 
scheduling project development and assigning people to tasks. They supervise the work 
to ensure that it is carried out to the required standards, and they monitor progress to 
check that the development is on time and within budget. 
 
• Risk management Project managers have to assess the risks that may affect a project, 
monitor these risks, and take action when problems arise. 
• People management Project managers are responsible for managing a team of people. 
They have to choose people for their team and establish ways of working that lead to 
effective team performance. 
• Reporting Project managers are usually responsible for reporting on the progress of a 
project to customers and to the managers of the company developing the software. They 
have to be able to communicate at a range of levels, from detailed technical information 
to management summaries. They have to write concise, coherent documents that 
abstract critical information from detailed project reports. They must be able to present 
this information during progress reviews. 
• Proposal writing The first stage in a software project may involve writing a proposal to win 
a contract to carry out an item of work. The proposal describes the objectives of the 
project and how it will be carried out. It usually includes cost and schedule estimates and 
justifies why the project contract should be awarded to a particular organization or team. 
Proposal writing is a critical task as the survival of many software companies depends on 
having enough proposals accepted and contracts awarded.
 