3.2 The Birth of Agile Methods  
In the 1980s and early 1990s, there was a widespread view that the best way to achieve better 
software was through careful project planning, formalized quality assurance, use of analysis and 
design methods supported by software tools, and con-trolled and rigorous software development 
processes. This view came from the software engineering community that was responsible for 
developing large, long-lived software systems such as aerospace and government systems. This 
plan-driven approach was developed for software developed by large teams, working for different 
companies. 

Teams were often geographically dispersed and worked on the software for long 
periods of time. An example of this type of software is the control systems for a modern aircraft, 
which might take up to 10 years from initial specification to deployment.  
Plan-driven approaches involve a significant overhead in planning, designing, and documenting 
the system. This overhead is justified when the work of multiple development teams has to be 
coordinated, when the system is a critical system, and when many different people will be 
involved in maintaining the software over its lifetime. 
 
However, when this heavyweight, plan-driven development approach is applied to small and 
medium-sized business systems, the overhead involved is so large that it dominates the software 
development process. More time is spent on how the system should be developed than on 
program development and testing. As the system requirements change, rework is essential and, 
in principle at least, the specification and design have to change with the program. 
 
Dissatisfaction with these heavyweight approaches to software engineering led to the 
development of agile methods in the late 1990s. These methods allowed the development team 
to focus on the software itself rather than on its design and documentation. They are best suited 
to application development where the system requirements usually change rapidly during the 
development process. They are intended to deliver working software quickly to customers, who 
can then pro-pose new and changed requirements to be included in later iterations of the system. 
They aim to cut down on process bureaucracy by avoiding work that has dubious long-term value 
and eliminating documentation that will probably never be used. 
The philosophy behind agile methods is reflected in the agile manifesto (http:// 
agilemanifesto.org) issued by the leading developers of these methods.  