6.2 Verification and Validation  
Verification and validation processes are concerned with checking that software being developed 
meets its specification and delivers the functionality expected by the people paying for the 
software. These checking processes start as soon as requirements become available and continue 
through all stages of the development process.  

Software verification is the process of checking that the software meets its stated functional and 
non-functional requirements. Validation is a more general process. The aim of software validation 
is to ensure that the software meets the customer’s expectations. It goes beyond checking 
conformance with the specification to demonstrating that the software does what the customer 
expects it to do.  

Validation is essential because statements of requirements do not always reflect the real wishes 
or needs of system customers and users. The goal of verification and validation processes is to 
establish confidence that the software system is “fit for purpose.” This means that the system 
must be good enough for its intended use. The level of required confidence depends on the 
system’s purpose, the expectations of the system users, and the current marketing environment 
for the system: 

i. Software purpose: The more critical the software, the more important it is that it 
is reliable. For example, the level of confidence required for software used to 
control a safety-critical system is much higher than that required for a 
demonstrator system that prototypes new product ideas. 
 
ii. User expectations: Because of their previous experiences with buggy, unreliable 
software, users sometimes have low expectations of software quality. They are not 
surprised when their software fails. When a new system is installed, user may 
tolerate failures because the benefits of use outweigh the costs of failure recovery. 
However, as a software product becomes more established, users expect it to 
become more reliable. Consequently, more thorough testing of later versions of 
the system may be required. 

iii. Marketing environment When a software company brings a system to market, it 
must take into account competing products, the price that customers are willing 
to pay for a system, and the required schedule for delivering that system. In a 
competitive environment, the company may decide to release a program before it 
has been fully tested and debugged because it wants to be the first into the 
market. If a software product or app is very cheap, users may be willing to toler-
ate a lower level of reliability. 

Just like software testing, the verification and validation process may involve software inspections 
and reviews. Inspections and reviews analyse and check the system requirements, design models, 
the program source code, and even proposed system tests. These are “static” V & V techniques 
in which you don’t need to execute the software to verify it.  
 
Inspections mostly focus on the source code of a system, but any readable representation of the 
software, such as its requirements or a design model, can be inspected. When you inspect a 
system, you use knowledge of the system, its application domain, and the programming or 
modelling language to discover errors. 