ossibly, new 
functionality defined for later increments. 
 
Incremental development has three major advantages over the waterfall model: 
i. The cost of implementing requirements changes is reduced. The amount of analysis 
and documentation that has to be redone is significantly less than is required with the 
waterfall model. 
 
ii. It is easier to get customer feedback on the development work that has been done. 
Customers can comment on demonstrations of the software and see how much has 
been implemented. Customers find it difficult to judge progress from software design 
documents. 
 
iii. Early delivery and deployment of useful software to the customer is possible, even if 
all of the functionality has not been included. Customers are able to use and gain value 
from the software earlier than is possible with a waterfall process. 
 
From a management perspective, the incremental approach has two problems: 
 
i. The process is not visible. Managers need regular deliverables to measure progress. If 
systems are developed quickly, it is not cost effective to produce documents that 
reflect every version of the system. 
ii. System structure tends to degrade as new increments are added. Regular change leads 
to messy code as new functionality is added in whatever way is possible. It becomes 
increasingly difficult and costly to add new features to a system. To reduce structural 
degradation and general code messiness, agile methods suggest that you should  
regularly refactor (improve and restructure) the software. 
  
The problems of incremental development become particularly acute for large, complex, long-
lifetime systems, where different teams develop different parts of the system. Large systems need 
a stable framework or architecture, and the responsibilities of the different teams working on 
parts of the system need to be clearly defined with respect to that architecture. This has to be 
planned in advance rather than developed incrementally. 
http://software-engineering-book.com/web/incremental-development/ 
 
Incremental development does not mean that you have to deliver each increment to the system 
customer. You can develop a system incrementally and expose it to customers and other 
stakeholders for comment, without necessarily delivering it and deploying it in the customer’s 
environment.