6.4 Test-driven Development  
Test-driven development (TDD) is an approach to program development in which you interleave 
testing and code development. You develop the code incrementally, along with a set of tests for 
that increment. You don’t start working on the next increment until the code that you have 
developed passes all of its tests.  
 
Test-driven development was introduced as part of the XP agile development method. However, 
it has now gained mainstream acceptance and may be used in both agile and plan-based 
processes 
 
Figure 6.1: Test driven Development (Sommerville,  I.  2021)   
 
The steps in the process are as follows: 

i. You start by identifying the increment of functionality that is required. This 
should normally be small and implementable in a few lines of code. 
 
ii. You write a test for this functionality and implement it as an automated test. This 
means that the test can be executed and will report whether or not it has passed 
or failed. 
 
iii. You then run the test, along with all other tests that have been implemented. 
Initially, you have not implemented the functionality so the new test will fail. This 
is deliberate as it shows that the test adds something to the test set. 
 
iv. You then implement the functionality and re-run the test. This may involve 
refactoring existing code to improve it and add new code to what’s already there. 
 
v. Once all tests run successfully, you move on to implementing the next chunk of 
functionality 

One of the most important benefits of TDD is that it reduces the costs of regression testing. 
Regression testing involves running test sets that have successfully executed after changes have 
been made to a system. The regression test checks that these changes have not introduced new 
bugs into the system and that the new code interacts as expected with the existing code.  
 
Regression testing is expensive and sometimes impractical when a system is manually tested, as 
the costs in time and effort are very high. You have to try to choose the most relevant tests to re-
run and it is easy to miss important tests.