6.5.1 Requirement based Testing  
A general principle of good requirements engineering practice is that requirements should be 
testable. That is, the requirement should be written so that a test can be designed for that 
requirement. A tester can then check that the requirement has been satisfied. Requirements-
based testing, therefore, is a systematic approach to test-case design where you consider each 
requirement and derive a set of tests for it. Requirements-based testing is validation rather than 
defect testing—you are trying to demonstrate that the system has properly implemented its 
requirements. 
 
6.5.2 Scenario Testing  
Scenario testing is an approach to release testing whereby you devise typical scenarios of use and 
use these scenarios to develop test cases for the system. A scenario is a story that describes one 
way in which the system might be used. Scenarios should be realistic, and real system users should 
be able to relate to them. If you have used scenarios or user stories as part of the requirements 
engineering process (described in Chapter 4), then you may be able to reuse them as testing 
scenarios. In a short paper on scenario testing, Kaner (Kaner 2003) suggests that a scenario test 
should be a narrative story that is credible and fairly complex. It should motivate stakeholders; 
that is, they should relate to the scenario and believe that it is important that the system passes 
the test. He also suggests that it should be easy to evaluate. If there are problems with the system, 
then the release testing team should recognize them. 

6.5.3 Performance Testing  
Once a system has been completely integrated, it is possible to test for emergent properties, such 
as performance and reliability. Performance tests have to be designed to ensure that the system 
can process its intended load. This usually involves running a series of tests where you increase 
the load until the system performance becomes unacceptable. 
 
As with other types of testing, performance testing is concerned both with demonstrating that 
the system meets its requirements and discovering problems and defects in the system. To test 
whether performance requirements are being achieved, you may have to construct an 
operational profile. 