Pair programming leads to a deep knowledge of a program, as both programmers have to 
understand the program in detail to continue development. This depth of knowledge is 
sometimes difficult to achieve in other inspection processes, and so pair programming can find 
bugs that sometimes would not be discovered in formal inspections. 
However, the two people involved cannot be as objective as an external inspection team in as 
much as they are examining their own work. Potential problems are: 

• Mutual misunderstandings: Both members of a pair may make the same mistake in 
understanding the system requirements. Discussions may reinforce these errors. 
• Pair reputation: Pairs may be reluctant to look for errors because they do not want to slow 
down the progress of the project. 
• Working relationships: The pair’s ability to discover defects is likely to be com-promised 
by their close 
 
The informal approach to quality management adopted in agile methods is particularly 
effective for software product development where the company developing the software also 
controls its specification. There is no need to deliver quality reports to an external customer, 
nor is there any need to integrate with other quality management teams.  

However, when a large system is being developed for an external customer, agile approaches 
to quality management with minimal documentation may be impractical:  

• If the customer is a large company, it may have its own quality management processes 
and may expect the software development company to report on progress in a way 
that is compatible with these processes. Therefore, the development team may have 
to produce a formal quality plan and quality reports as required by the customer. 
 
• Where several geographically distributed teams are involved in development, perhaps 
from different companies, then informal communications may be impractical. 
Different companies may have different approaches to quality management, and you 
may have to agree to produce some formal documentation. 
• For long-lifetime systems, the team involved in development will change over time. If 
there is no documentation, new team members may find it impossible to understand 
why development decisions have been made. 

Consequently, the informal approach to quality management in agile methods may have to be 
adapted so that some quality documentation and processes are introduced. Generally, this 
approach is integrated with the iterative development process. Instead of developing software, 
one of the sprints or iterations should focus on producing essential software documentation.