This is one of the important differences between professional and amateur software 
development. If you are writing a program for yourself, no one else will use it and you don’t have 
to worry about writing program guides, documenting the program design, and so on. However, 
if you are writing software that other people will use and other engineers will change, then you 
usually have to provide additional information as well as the code of the program. 
Software engineers are concerned with developing software products, that is, software that can 
be sold to a customer. There are two kinds of software product: 
 
• Generic products: These are stand-alone systems that are produced by a development 
organization and sold on the open market to any customer who is able to buy them. 
Examples of this type of product include apps for mobile devices, software for PCs such 
as databases, word processors, drawing packages, and project management tools. 
 
• Customized (or bespoke) software: These are systems that are commissioned by, and 
developed for a particular customer. A software contractor designs and implements the 
software especially for that customer. Examples of this type of software include control 
systems for electronic devices, systems written to support a particular business process, 
and air traffic control systems. 
 
The critical distinction between these types of software is that, in generic products, the 
organization that develops the software controls the software specification. This means that if 
they run into development problems, they can rethink what is to be developed. However, for 
custom products, the specification is developed and controlled by the organization that is buying 
the software. The software developers must work to that specification. 
 
The distinction between these system product types is becoming increasingly blurred. More and 
more systems are now being built with a generic product as a base, which is then adapted to suit 
the requirements of a customer. Enterprise Resource Planning (ERP) systems, such as systems 
from SAP and Oracle, are the best examples of this approach. Here, a large and complex system 
is adapted for a company by incorporating information about business rules and processes, 
reports required, and so on. 