4.4.1 Requirement Elicitation Techniques  
Requirements elicitation involves meeting with stakeholders of different kinds to discover 
information about the proposed system. You may supplement this information with knowledge 
of existing systems and their usage and information from documents of various kinds. You need 
to spend time understanding how people work, what they produce, how they use other systems, 
and how they may need to change to accommodate a new system. 
 
There are two fundamental approaches to requirements elicitation: 
 
• Interviewing, where you talk to people about what they do.  
• Observation or ethnography, where you watch people doing their job to see what artifacts 
they use, how they use them, and so on. 
 
You should use a mix of interviewing and observation to collect information and, from that, you 
derive the requirements, which are then the basis for further discussions. 
 
4.5 Requirements Specification 
Requirements specification is the process of writing down the user and system requirements in a 
requirements document. Ideally, the user and system requirements should be clear, 
unambiguous, easy to understand, complete, and consistent. In practice, this is almost impossible 
to achieve. Stakeholders interpret the requirements in different ways, and there are often 
inherent conflicts and inconsistencies in the requirements. User requirements are almost always 
written in natural language supplemented by appropriate diagrams and tables in the 
requirements document. System requirements may also be written in natural language, but other 
notations based on forms, graphical, or mathematical system models can also be used.  
The user requirements for a system should describe the functional and nonfunctional 
requirements so that they are understandable by system users who don’t have detailed technical 
knowledge. Ideally, they should specify only the external behavior of the system. The 
requirements document should not include details of the system architecture or design. 
Consequently, if you are writing user requirements, you should not use soft-ware jargon, 
structured notations, or formal notations. You should write user requirements in natural 
language, with simple tables, forms, and intuitive diagrams 
