4.2.1 Functional Requirements   
The functional requirements for a system describe what the system should do. These 
requirements depend on the type of software being developed, the expected users of the 
software, and the general approach taken by the organization when writing requirements. When 
expressed as user requirements, functional requirements should be written in natural language 
so that system users and managers can understand them.  
Functional system requirements expand the user requirements and are written for system 
developers. They should describe the system functions, their inputs and outputs, and exceptions 
in detail. Functional system requirements vary from general requirements covering what the 
system should do to very specific requirements reflecting local ways of working or an 
organization’s existing systems. 

For example, here are examples of functional requirements for the Mentcare system, used to 
maintain information about patients receiving treatment for mental health problems: 
• A user shall be able to search the appointments lists for all clinics.  
• The system shall generate each day, for each clinic, a list of patients who are expected to 
attend appointments that day. 
• Each staff member using the system shall be uniquely identified by his or her eight-digit 
employee number 

These user requirements define specific functionality that should be included in the system. 
Functional requirements, as the name suggests, have traditionally focused on what the system 
should do. However, if an organization decides that an existing off-the-shelf system software 
product can meet its needs, then there is very little point in developing a detailed functional 
specification. In such cases, the focus should be on the development of information requirements 
that specify the information needed for people to do their work. Information requirements 
specify the information needed and how it is to be delivered and organized. Therefore, an 
information requirement for the Mentcare system might specify what information is to be 
included in the list of patients expected for appointments that day