2.2 The Need for Software Process Lifecycle Model  
A software life cycle model (also called process model) is a descriptive and diagrammatic 
representation of the software life cycle. A life cycle model represents all the activities required 
to make a software product transit through its life cycle phases. It also captures the order in 
which these activities are to be undertaken. In other words, a life cycle model maps the different 
activities performed on a software product from its inception to retirement. Different life cycle 
models may map the basic development activities to phases in different ways. 

Thus, no matter which life cycle model is followed, the basic activities are included in all life cycle models though 
the activities may be carried out in different orders in different life cycle models. During any life 
cycle phase, more than one activity may also be carried out. 
The development team must identify a suitable life cycle model for the particular project and 
then adhere to it. Without using of a particular life cycle model, the development of a software 
product would not be in a systematic and disciplined manner. When a software product is being 
developed by a team there must be a clear understanding among team members about when 
and what to do. Otherwise, it would lead to chaos and project failure.  
This problem can be illustrated by using an example. Suppose a software development problem 
is divided into several parts and the parts are assigned to the team members. From then on, 
suppose the team members are allowed the freedom to develop the parts assigned to them in 
whatever way they like. It is possible that one member might start writing the code for his part, 
another might decide to prepare the test documents first, and some other engineer might begin 
with the design phase of the parts assigned to him. This would be one of the perfect recipes for 
project failure. A software life cycle model defines entry and exit criteria for every phase. A phase 
can start only if its phase-entry criteria have been satisfied. So without software life cycle model 
the entry and exit criteria for a phase cannot be recognized. Without software life cycle models 
it becomes difficult for software project managers to monitor the progress of the project