8.9.1 The Review Process  
Although there are many variations in the details of reviews, review processes are structured into 
three phases: 

• Pre-review activities These are preparatory activities that are essential for the review to 
be effective. Typically, pre-review activities are concerned with review planning and 
review preparation. Review planning involves setting up a review team, arranging a time 
and place for the review, and distributing the documents to be reviewed. During review 
preparation, the team may meet to get an overview of the software to be reviewed. 
Individual review team members read and understand the software or documents and 
relevant standards. They work independently to find errors, omissions, and departures 
from standards. Reviewers may supply written comments on the software if they cannot 
attend the review meeting. 
 
• The review meeting During the review meeting, an author of the document or program 
being reviewed should “walk through” the document with the review team. The review 
itself should be relatively short—two hours at most. One team member should chair the 
review, and another should formally record all review decisions and actions to be taken. 
During the review, the chair is responsible for ensuring that all submitted comments are 
considered. The review chair should sign a record of comments and actions agreed during 
the review. 
 
•  Post-review activities After a review meeting has ended, the issues and problems raised 
during the review must be addressed. Actions may involve fixing software bugs, 
refactoring software so that it conforms to quality standards, or rewriting documents. 
Sometimes the problems discovered in a quality review are such that a management 
review is also necessary to decide if more resources should be made available to correct 
them. After changes have been made, the review chair may check that all the review 
comments have been taken into account. Sometimes a further review will be required to 
check that the changes made cover all of the previous review comments. 
 