8.2.1 Risk Identification  
Risk identification is the first stage of the risk management process. It is concerned with 
identifying the risks that could pose a major threat to the software engineering process, the 
software being developed, or the development organization. Risk identi-fication may be a team 
process in which a team gets together to brainstorm possible risks. Alternatively, project 
managers may identify risks based on their experience of what went wrong on previous projects. 
 
8.2.2 Risk Analysis 
During the risk analysis process, you have to consider each identified risk and make a judgment 
about the probability and seriousness of that risk. There is no easy way to do so. You have to rely 
on your judgment and experience of previous projects and the problems that arose in them. It is 
not possible to make precise, numeric assess-ment of the probability and seriousness of each risk 
 
8.2.3 Risk Planning  
The risk planning process develops strategies to manage the key risks that threaten the project. 
For each risk, you have to think of actions that you might take to mini-mize the disruption to the 
project if the problem identified in the risk occurs. You should also think about the information 
that you need to collect while monitoring the project so that emerging problems can be detected 
before they become serious. In risk planning, you have to ask “what-if” questions that consider 
both individual risks, combinations of risks, and external factors that affect these risks. 

8.2.4 Risk Monitoring  
Risk monitoring is the process of checking that your assumptions about the product, process, and 
business risks have not changed. You should regularly assess each of the identified risks to decide 
whether or not that risk is becoming more or less prob-able. You should also think about whether 
or not the effects of the risk have changed. To do this, you have to look at other factors, such as  
the number of requirements change requests, which give you clues about the risk probability and 
its effects 