Figure 4.3: Types of Non-functional Requirements  (Sommerville,  I.  2021)   
 
Non-functional requirements arise through user needs because of budget constraints, 
organizational policies, the need for interoperability with other software or hardware systems, or 
external factors such as safety regulations or privacy legislation.  
Figure 4.3 is a classification of non-functional requirements. You can see from this diagram that 
the non-functional requirements may come from required characteristics of the software 
(product requirements), the organization developing the software (organizational requirements), 
or external sources 
• Product requirements: These requirements specify or constrain the runtime behavior of 
the software. Examples include performance requirements for how fast the system must 
execute and how much memory it requires; reliability requirements that set out the 
acceptable failure rate; security requirements; and usability requirements.  
• Organizational requirements: These requirements are broad system requirements derived 
from policies and procedures in the customer’s and developer’s organizations. Examples 
include operational process requirements that define how the system will be used; 
development process requirements that specify the programming language; the 
development environment or process standards to be used; and environmental 
requirements that specify the operating environment of the system. 
• External requirements: This broad heading covers all requirements that are derived from 
factors external to the system and its development process. These may include regulatory 
requirements that set out what must be done for the system to be approved for use by a 
regulator, such as a nuclear safety authority; legislative requirements that must be 
followed to ensure that the system operates within the law; and ethical requirements that 
ensure that the system will be acceptable to its users and the general public. 
 
In summary, this is briefly explained below;  
 
Product requirement: The Mentcare system shall be available to all clinics during normal 
working hours (Mon–Fri, 08:30–17:30). Downtime within normal working hours shall not 
exceed 5 seconds in any one day. 
 
Organizational requirement: Users of the Mentcare system shall identify themselves using 
their health authority identity card.  
 
External requirement: The system shall implement patient privacy provisions as set out in 
HStan-03-2006-priv. 

A common problem with non-functional requirements is that stakeholders propose 
requirements as general goals, such as ease of use, the ability of the system to recover 
from failure, or rapid user response. Goals set out good intentions but cause problems for 
system developers as they leave scope for interpretation and subsequent dispute once 
the system is delivered. 
 
Figure 4.4: Metrics for specifying non- functional requirements (Sommerville,  I.  2021)   
 
Whenever possible, you should write non-functional requirements quantitatively so that they can 
be objectively tested. The Figure above shows metrics that you can use to specify non-functional 
system properties. You can measure these characteristics when the system is being tested to 
check whether or not the system has met its non-functional requirements.  
Non-functional requirements often conflict and interact with other functional or non-functional 
requirements. It is difficult to separate functional and non-functional requirements in the 
requirements document. If the non-functional requirements are stated separately from the 
functional requirements, the relationships between them may be hard to understand.  
However, you should, ideally, highlight requirements that are clearly related to emergent system 
properties, such as performance or reliability. You can do this by putting them in a separate 
section of the requirements document or by distinguishing them, in some way, from other system 
requirements. 