8.9.2 Program Inspection 
Program inspections are peer reviews where team members collaborate to find bugs in the 
program that is being developed. Inspections may be part of the software verification and 
validation processes. They complement testing as they do not require the program to be 
executed. Incomplete versions of the system can be verified, and representations such as UML 
models can be checked. Program tests may be reviewed. Test reviews often find problems with 
tests and so improve their effectiveness in detecting program bugs. 
 
Program inspections involve team members from different backgrounds who make a careful, line-
by-line review of the program source code. They look for defects and problems and describe them 
at an inspection meeting. Defects may be logical errors, anomalies in the code that might indicate 
an erroneous condition or features that have been omitted from the code. The review team 
examines the design models or the program code in detail and highlights anomalies and problems 
for repair. 
 
During an inspection, a checklist of common programming errors is often used to focus the search 
for bugs. This checklist may be based on examples from books or from knowledge of defects that 
are common in a particular application domain. You use different checklists for different 
programming languages because each language has its own characteristic errors. Humphrey 
(Humphrey, 1989), in a comprehensive discussion of inspections, gives a number of examples of 
inspection checklists. Possible checks that might be made during the inspection process are 
shown in 

8.10 Quality management and Agile Development 
  
Agile methods of software engineering focus on the development of code. They minimize 
documentation and processes that are not directly concerned with code development and 
emphasize the importance of informal communications among team members rather than 
communications based on project documents. Quality, in agile development, means code quality 
and practices such as refactoring, and test-driven development are used to ensure that high 
quality code is produced. Quality management in agile development is informal rather than 
document-based. It relies on establishing a quality culture, where all team members feel 
responsible for soft-ware quality and take actions to ensure that quality is maintained. The agile 
community is fundamentally opposed to what it sees as the bureaucratic overhead of standards 
based approaches and quality processes as embodied in ISO 9001. Companies that use agile 
development methods are rarely concerned with ISO 9001 certification. In agile development, 
quality management is based on shared good practice rather than formal documentation. 
Agile processes rarely use formal inspection or review processes. In Scrum, the development 
team meets after each iteration to discuss quality issues and problems. The team may decide on 
changes to the way they work to avoid any quality problems that have emerged. A collective 
decision may be made to focus on refactoring and quality improvement during a sprint rather 
than the addition of new system functionality. 
 
Code reviews may be the responsibility of individuals (check before check-in) or may rely on the 
use of pair programming.  Pair programming is an approach in which two people are responsible 
for code development and work together to achieve it. Code developed by an individual is 
therefore constantly being examined and reviewed by another team member. Two people look 
at every line of code and check it before it is accepted. 