Chapter Four: Requirements Engineering  
  
4.1 Introduction to Requirement Engineering  
The requirements for a system are the descriptions of the services that a system should provide 
and the constraints on its operation. These requirements reflect the needs of customers for a 
system that serves a certain purpose such as controlling a device, placing an order, or finding 
information. The process of finding out, analyzing, documenting and checking these services and 
constraints is called requirements engineering (RE). 
Some of the problems that arise during the requirements engineering process are a result of 
failing to make a clear separation between these different levels of description. We distinguish 
between them by using the term user requirements to mean the high-level abstract requirements 
and system requirements to mean the detailed description of what the system should do. User 
requirements and system requirements may be defined as follows;  

• User requirements are statements, in a natural language plus diagrams, of what ser-vices 
the system is expected to provide to system users and the constraints under which it must 
operate. The user requirements may vary from broad statements of the system features 
required to detailed, precise descriptions of the system functionality. 
• System requirements are more detailed descriptions of the software system’s functions, 
services, and operational constraints. The system requirements document (sometimes 
called a functional specification) should define exactly what is to be implemented. It may 
be part of the contract between the system buyer and the software developers. 
Different kinds of requirement are needed to communicate information about a system to 
different types of reader. 

The figure below illustrates the distinction between user and system requirements. This example 
from the mental health care patient information system (Mentcare) shows how a user 
requirement may be expanded into several system requirements. You can see from the Figure  
that the user requirement is quite general. The system requirements provide more specific 
information about the services and functions of the system that is to be implemented 
 
Figure 4.1: User and Systems Requirements (Sommerville,  I.  2021)   

You need to write requirements at different levels of detail because different types of readers use 
them in different ways. 

The Figure below shows the types of readers of the user and system requirements. The readers 
of the user requirements are not usually concerned with how the system will be implemented 
and may be managers who are not interested in the detailed facilities of the system. The readers 
of the system requirements need to know more precisely what the system will do because they 
are concerned with how it will support the business processes or because they are involved in 
the system implementation. The different types of document readers shown in the Figure below 
are examples of system stakeholders. As well as users, many other people have some kind of 
interest in the system. System stakeholders include anyone who is affected by the system in some 
way and so anyone who has a legitimate interest in it. Stakeholders range from end-users of a 
system through managers to external stakeholders such as regulators, who certify the 
acceptability of the system.
 