5.2.4 Interface Specification  
An important part of any design process is the specification of the interfaces between the 
components in the design. You need to specify interfaces so that objects and subsystems can be 
designed in parallel. Once an interface has been specified, the developers of other objects may 
assume that interface will be implemented. Interface design is concerned with specifying the 
detail of the interface to an object or to a group of objects.  
 
This means defining the signatures and semantics of the services that are provided by the object 
or by a group of objects. Interfaces can be specified in the UML using the same notation as a class 
diagram. However, there is no attribute section, and the UML stereotype «interface» should be 
included in the name part. The semantics of the interface may be defined using the object 
constraint language (OCL). 
 
You should not include details of the data representation in an interface design, as attributes are 
not defined in an interface specification. However, you should include operations to access and 
update data. As the data representation is hidden, it can be easily changed without affecting the 
objects that use that data. This leads to a design that is inherently more maintainable 
 
5.3 Design Pattern  
Design patterns were derived from ideas put forward by Christopher Alexander (Alexander 1979), 
who suggested that there were certain common patterns of building design that were inherently 
pleasing and effective. The pattern is a description of the problem and the essence of its solution, 
so that the solution may be reused in different settings.  
 
Patterns and Pattern Languages are ways to describe best practices, good designs, and capture 
experience in a way that it is possible for others to reuse this experience. 
 
5.4 Implementation Issues  
Software engineering includes all of the activities involved in software development from the 
initial requirements of the system through to maintenance and management of the deployed 
system. A critical stage of this process is, of course, system implementation, where you create an 
executable version of the software. Implementation may involve developing programs in high-or 
low-level programming languages or tailoring and adapting generic, off-the-shelf systems to meet 
the specific requirements of an organization. 
 
Some aspects of implementation that are particularly important to software engineering and that 
are often not covered in programming texts. These are: 
 
• Reuse: Most modern software is constructed by reusing existing components or systems. 
When you are developing software, you should make as much use as possible of existing 
code. 
• Configuration management During the development process, many different versions of 
each software component are created. If you don’t keep track of these versions in a 
configuration management system, you are liable to include the wrong versions of these 
components in your system. 
• Host-target development Production software does not usually execute on the same 
computer as the software development environment. Rather, you develop it on one 
computer (the host system) and execute it on a separate computer (the target system). 
The host and target systems are sometimes of the same type, but often they are 
completely different. 