Chapter Three: Agile Software Development  
  
3.1 Introduction 
Businesses now operate in a global, rapidly changing environment. They have to respond to new 
opportunities and markets, changing economic conditions and the emergence of competing 
products and services. Software is part of almost all business operations, so new software have 
to be developed quickly to take advantage of new opportunities and to respond to competitive 
pressure.  

Rapid software development and delivery is therefore the most critical requirement for most 
business systems. In fact, businesses may be willing to trade off software quality and compromise 
on requirements if they can deploy essential new software quickly. Because these businesses are 
operating in a changing environment, it is practically impossible to derive a complete set of stable 
software requirements. Requirements change because customers find it impossible to predict 
how a system will affect working practices, how it will interact with other systems, and what user 
operations should be automated. It may only be after a system has been delivered and users gain 
experience with it that the real requirements become clear. Even then, external factors drive 
requirements change. 

Plan-driven software development processes that completely specify the requirements and then 
design, build, and test a system are not geared to rapid software development. As the 
requirements change or as requirements problems are discovered, the system design or 
implementation has to be reworked and retested. As a consequence, a conventional waterfall or 
specification-based process is usually a lengthy one, and the final software is delivered to the 
customer long after it was originally specified.  

For some types of software, such as safety-critical control systems, where a complete analysis of 
the system is essential, this plan-driven approach is the right one. However, in a fast-moving 
business environment, it can cause real problems. By the time the software is available for use, 
the original reason for its procurement may have changed so radically that the software is 
effectively useless. Therefore, for business systems in particular, development processes that 
focus on rapid software development and delivery are essential. 
The need for rapid software development and processes that can handle changing requirements 
has been recognized for many years. However, faster software development really took off in the 
late 1990s with the development of the idea of “agile methods” such as Extreme Programming 
(Beck 1999), Scrum (Schwaber and Beedle 2001), and DSDM (Stapleton 2003). Rapid software 
development became known as agile development or agile methods. These agile methods are 
designed to produce useful software quickly.