2.3 Software Specifications  
Software specification or requirements engineering is the process of understanding and defining 
what services are required from the system and identifying the constraints on the system’s 
operation and development.  

Requirements engineering is a particularly critical stage of the software process, as mistakes made 
at this stage inevitably lead to later problems in the system design and implementation. Before 
the requirements engineering process starts, a company may carry out a feasibility or marketing 
study to assess whether or not there is a need or a market for the software and whether or not it 
is technically and financially realistic to develop the software required. Feasibility studies are 
short-term, relatively cheap studies that inform the decision of whether or not to go ahead with 
a more detailed analysis. 
The requirements engineering process aims to produce an agreed requirements document that 
specifies a system satisfying stakeholder requirements. Requirements are usually presented at 
two levels of detail. End-users and customers need a high-level statement of the requirements; 
system developers need a more detailed system specification. 
 
Figure 2.4: The Requirement Engineering Process (Sommerville,  I.  2021)   
There are three main activities in the requirements engineering process: 

i. Requirements elicitation and analysis: This is the process of deriving the system 
requirements through observation of existing systems, discussions with potential 
users and procurers, task analysis, and so on. This may involve the development of 
one or more system models and prototypes. These help you understand the 
system to be specified. 
 
ii. Requirements specification: This is the activity of translating the information 
gathered during requirements analysis into a document that defines a set of 
requirements. Two types of requirements may be included in this document. User 
requirements are abstract statements of the system requirements for the 
customer and end-user of the system; system requirements are a more detailed 
description of the functionality to be provided. 
 
iii. Requirements validation: This activity checks the requirements for realism, 
consistency, and completeness. During this process, errors in the requirements 
document are inevitably discovered. It must then be modified to correct these 
problems. 
 
Requirements analysis continues during definition and specification, and new requirements come 
to light throughout the process. Therefore, the activities of analysis, definition, and specification 
are interleaved. 
 
In agile methods, requirements specification is not a separate activity but is seen as part of system 
development. Requirements are informally specified for each increment of the system just before 
that increment is developed. Requirements are specified according to user priorities. The 
elicitation of requirements comes from users who are part of or work closely with the 
development team 