8.5 Plan-driven approach   
Plan-driven or plan-based development is an approach to software engineering where the 
development process is planned in detail. A project plan is created that records the work to be 
done, who will do it, the development schedule, and the work products. Managers use the plan 
to support project decision making and as a way of measuring progress. Plan-driven development 
is based on engineering project management techniques and can be thought of as the 
“traditional” way of managing large software development projects.  
 
Agile development involves a different planning process, where decisions are delayed. The 
problem with plan-driven development is that early decisions have to be revised because of 
changes to the environments in which the software is developed and used. Delaying planning 
decisions avoids unnecessary rework. However, the arguments in favor of a plan-driven approach 
are that early planning allows organizational issues (availability of staff, other projects, etc.) to be 
taken into account. Potential problems and dependencies are discovered before the project 
starts, rather than once the project is underway.  
 
In hindsight, the best approach to project planning involves a sensible mixture of plan-based and 
agile development. The balance depends on the type of project and skills of the people who are 
available. At one extreme, large security and safety-critical systems require extensive up-front 
analysis and may have to be certified before they are put into use. These systems should be mostly 
plan-driven. At the other extreme, small to medium-size information systems, to be used in a 
rapidly changing competitive environment, should be mostly agile. Where several companies are 
involved in a development project, a plan-driven approach is normally used to coordinate the 
work across each development site. 

8.6 Project Scheduling  
Project scheduling is the process of deciding how the work in a project will be organized as 
separate tasks, and when and how these tasks will be executed. You estimate the calendar time 
needed to complete each task and the effort required, and you suggest who will work on the tasks 
that have been identified. You also have to estimate the hardware and software resources that 
are needed to complete each task.  
 
For example, if you are developing an embedded system, you have to estimate the time that you 
need on specialized hardware and the costs of running a system simulator. In terms of the 
planning stages that I introduced in the introduction of this chapter, an initial project schedule is 
usually created during the project startup phase.  
 
This schedule is then refined and modified during development planning. Both plan-based and 
agile processes need an initial project schedule, although less detail is included in an agile project 
plan. This initial schedule is used to plan how people will be allocated to projects and to check 
the progress of the project against its contractual commitments. In traditional development 
processes, the complete schedule is initially developed and then modified as the project 
progresses. In agile processes, there has to be an overall schedule that identifies when the major 
phases of the project will be completed. An iterative approach to scheduling is then used to plan 
each phase. 