5.2.3 Design Models  
 
Design or system models show the objects or object classes in a system. They also show the 
associations and relationships between these entities. These models are the bridge between the 
system requirements and the implementation of a system. They have to be abstract so that 
unnecessary detail doesn’t hide the relationships between them and the system requirements.  
 
However, they also have to include enough detail for programmers to make implementation 
decisions. The level of detail that you need in a design model depends on the design process used. 
Where there are close links between requirements engineers, designers and programmers, then 
abstract models may be all that are required. Specific design decisions may be made as the system 
is implemented, with problems resolved through informal discussions. Similarly, if agile 
development is used, outline design models on a whiteboard may be all that is required. 
 
However, if a plan-based development process is used, you may need more detailed models. 
When the links between requirements engineers, designers, and programmers are indirect (e.g., 
where a system is being designed in one part of an organization but implemented elsewhere), 
then precise design descriptions are needed for communication. Detailed models, derived from 
the high-level abstract models, are used so that all team members have a common understanding 
of the design. An important step in the design process, therefore, is to decide on the design 
models that you need and the level of detail required in these models. This depends on the type 
of system that is being developed. A sequential data-processing system is quite different from an 
embedded real-time system, so you need to use different types of design models. 

When you use the UML to develop a design, you should develop two kinds of design model: 
 
• Structural models, which describe the static structure of the system using object classes 
and their relationships. Important relationships that may be documented at this stage are 
generalization (inheritance) relationships, uses/used-by relationships, and composition 
relationships. 
• Dynamic models, which describe the dynamic structure of the system and show the 
expected runtime interactions between the system objects. Interactions that may be 
documented include the sequence of service requests made by objects and the state 
changes triggered by these object interactions. 
 