In practice, you have to use several knowledge sources to discover object classes. Object classes, 
attributes, and operations that are initially identified from the informal system description can be 
a starting point for the design. Information from application domain knowledge or scenario 
analysis may then be used to refine and extend the initial objects.  
 
This information can be collected from requirements documents, discussions with users, or 
analyses of existing systems. As well as the objects representing entities external to the system, 
you may also have to design “implementation objects” that are used to provide general services 
such as searching and validity checking. 
 
Figure 5.3: Weather station object (Sommerville,  I.  2021)   
 
In the wilderness weather station, object identification is based on the tangible hardware in the 
system. I don’t have space to include all the system objects here, but I have shown five object 
classes in the Figure above.  The Ground thermometer, Anemometer, and Barometer objects are 
application domain objects, and the WeatherStation and WeatherData objects have been 
identified from the system description and the scenario (use case) description: 
 
• The WeatherStation object class provides the basic interface of the weather station with 
its environment. Its operations are based on the interactions shown above. A single object 
class, and it includes all of these interactions. Alternatively, you could design the system 
interface as several different classes, with one class per interaction.  
• The WeatherData object class is responsible for processing the report weather command. 
It sends the summarized data from the weather station instruments to the weather 
information system. 
• The Ground thermometer, Anemometer, and Barometer object classes are directly related 
to instruments in the system. They reflect tangible hardware entities in the system and 
the operations are concerned with controlling that hardware. These objects operate 
autonomously to collect data at the specified frequency and store the collected data 
locally. This data is delivered to the WeatherData object on request 

You use knowledge of the application domain to identify other objects, attributes. and services: 
 
• Weather stations are often located in remote places and include various instru-ments that 
sometimes go wrong. Instrument failures should be reported auto-matically. This implies 
that you need attributes and operations to check the correct functioning of the 
instruments. 
 
• There are many remote weather stations, so each weather station should have its own 
identifier so that it can be uniquely identified in communications. 
• As weather stations are installed at different times, the types of instrument may be 
different. Therefore, each instrument should also be uniquely identified, and a database 
of instrument information should be maintained. 

At this stage in the design process, you should focus on the objects themselves, without thinking 
about how these objects might be implemented. Once you have identified the objects, you then 
refine the object design. You look for common features and then design the inheritance hierarchy 
for the system. For example, you may identify an Instrument superclass, which defines the 
common features of all instruments, such as an identifier, and get and test operations. You may 
also add new attributes and operations to the superclass, such as an attribute that records how 
often data should be collected. 