6.3.1 Unit Testing  

Unit testing is the process of testing program components, such as methods or object classes. 
Individual functions or methods are the simplest type of component. Your tests should be calls to 
these routines with different input parameters. When you are testing object classes, you should 
design your tests to provide coverage of all of the features of the object. This means that you 
should test all operations associated with the object; set and check the value of all attributes 
associated with the object; and put the object into all possible states. This means that you should 
simulate all events that cause a state change 

6.3.2 Component Testing  
Software components are often made up of several interacting objects. For example, in the 
weather station system, the reconfiguration component includes objects that deal with each 
aspect of the reconfiguration. You access the functionality of these objects through component 
interfaces.  
Testing composite components should therefore focus on showing that the component interface 
or interfaces behave according to its specification. You can assume that unit tests on the individual 
objects within the component have been completed. 
 
6.3.3 System Testing  
System testing during development involves integrating components to create a version of the 
system and then testing the integrated system. System testing checks that components are 
compatible, interact correctly, and transfer the right data at the right time across their interfaces. 
It obviously overlaps with component testing, but there are two important differences: 
 
i. During system testing, reusable components that have been separately developed 
and off-the-shelf systems may be integrated with newly developed components. 
The complete system is then tested. 
 
ii. Components developed by different team members or subteams may be 
integrated at this stage. System testing is a collective rather than an individual 
process. In some companies, system testing may involve a separate testing team 
with no involvement from designers and programmers 
 
All systems have emergent behavior. This means that some system functionality and 
characteristics only become obvious when you put the components together. This may be 
planned emergent behavior, which has to be tested. For example, you may integrate an 
authentication component with a component that updates the system database.  
 
You then have a system feature that restricts information updating to authorized users. 
Sometimes, however, the emergent behavior is unplanned and unwanted. You have to develop 
tests that check that the system is only doing what it is supposed to do. 
 
System testing should focus on testing the interactions between the components and objects that 
make up a system. You may also test reusable components or systems to check that they work as 
expected when they are integrated with new components. This interaction testing should 
discover those component bugs that are only revealed when a component is used by other 
components in the system. Interaction testing also helps find misunderstandings, made by 
component developers, about other components in the system