Some of the general process models are discussed below; 
 
2.2.1 The Waterfall Model  
The first published model of the software development process was derived from engineering 
process models used in large military systems engineering. It presents the software development 
process as a number of stages. Because of the cascade from one phase to another, this model is 
known as the waterfall model or software life cycle.  
 
Figure 2.1 : The Waterfall Model (Sommerville,  I.  2021)   
The waterfall model is an example of a plan-driven process. In principle at least, you plan and 
schedule all of the process activities before starting software development. 
The stages of the waterfall model directly reflect the fundamental software development 
activities 
• Requirements analysis and definition: The system’s services, constraints, and goals are 
established by consultation with system users. They are then defined in detail and serve 
as a system specification. 
• System and software design: The systems design process allocates the requirements to 
either hardware or software systems. It establishes an overall system architecture. 
Software design involves identifying and describing the funda-mental software system 
abstractions and their relationships. 
• Implementation and unit testing: During this stage, the software design is real-ized as a 
set of programs or program units. Unit testing involves verifying that each unit meets its 
specification. 
• Integration and system testing: The individual program units or programs are integrated 
and tested as a complete system to ensure that the software requirements have been 
met. After testing, the software system is delivered to the customer. 
• Operation and maintenance: Normally, this is the longest life-cycle phase. The system is 
installed and put into practical use. Maintenance involves correcting errors that were not 
discovered in earlier stages of the life cycle, improving the implementation of system 
units, and enhancing the system’s services as new requirements are discovered 
 
In principle, the result of each phase in the waterfall model is one or more documents that are 
approved (“signed off”). The following phase should not start until the previous phase has 
finished. For hardware development, where high manufacturing costs are involved, this makes 
sense.