For example, system stakeholders for the Mentcare system include: 

• Patients whose information is recorded in the system and relatives of these patients. 
• Doctors who are responsible for assessing and treating patients.  
• Nurses who coordinate the consultations with doctors and administer some treatments. 
• Medical receptionists who manage patients’ appointments.  
• IT staff who are responsible for installing and maintaining the system.  
• A medical ethics manager who must ensure that the system meets current ethical 
guidelines for patient care. 
• Health care managers who obtain management information from the system.  
• Medical records staff who are responsible for ensuring that system information can be 
maintained and preserved, and that record keeping procedures have been properly 
implemented. 
 
Figure 4.2: Readers of different types of Requirements Specification (Sommerville,  I.  2021)   
Requirements engineering is usually presented as the first stage of the software engineering 
process. However, some understanding of the system requirements may have to be developed 
before a decision is made to go ahead with the procurement or development of a system. This 
early-stage RE establishes a high-level view of what the system might do and the benefits that it 
might provide. These may then be considered in a feasibility study, which tries to assess whether 
or not the system is technically and financially feasible. The results of that study help 
management decide whether or not to go ahead with the procurement or development of the 
system.

4.2 Functional and Non- Functional Requirements  
Software system requirements are often classified as functional or non-functional requirements: 
 
• Functional requirements These are statements of services the system should provide, how 
the system should react to particular inputs, and how the system should behave in 
particular situations. In some cases, the functional requirements may also explicitly state 
what the system should not do. 
• Non-functional requirements These are constraints on the services or functions offered 
by the system. They include timing constraints, constraints on the development process, 
and constraints imposed by standards. Non-functional requirements often apply to the 
system as a whole rather than individual system features or services. 
 
In reality, the distinction between different types of requirements is not as clear-cut as 
these simple definitions suggest. A user requirement concerned with security, such as a 
statement limiting access to authorized users, may appear to be a non-functional 
requirement. However, when developed in more detail, this requirement may generate 
other requirements that are clearly functional, such as the need to include user 
authentication facilities in the system. 
 
This shows that requirements are not independent and that one requirement often 
generates or constrains other requirements. The system requirements therefore do not 
just specify the services or the features of the system that are required; they also specify 
the necessary functionality to ensure that these services/features are delivered effectively 
 
 