Chapter Two: Software Processes  
 
2.1 Software Processes 
A software process is a set of related activities that leads to the production of a software system. 
There are many different types of software systems, and there is no universal software 
engineering method that is applicable to all of them. Consequently, there is no universally 
applicable software process. The process used in different companies depends on the type of 
software being developed, the requirements of the software customer, and the skills of the 
people writing the software. 
 
However, although there are many different software processes, they all must include, in some 
form, the four fundamental software engineering activities  
• Software specification: The functionality of the software and constraints on its operation 
must be defined. 
• Software development: The software to meet the specification must be produced. 
• Software validation: The software must be validated to ensure that it does what the 
customer wants. 
• Software evolution: The software must evolve to meet changing customer needs. 
 
These activities are complex activities in themselves, and they include sub-activities such as 
requirements validation, architectural design, and unit testing. Processes also include other 
activities, such as software configuration management and project planning that support 
production activities. 

Software processes are complex and, like all intellectual and creative processes, rely on people 
making decisions and judgments. As there is no universal process that is right for all kinds of 
software, most software companies have developed their own development processes. Processes 
have evolved to take advantage of the capabilities of the software developers in an organization 
and the characteristics of the systems that are being developed. For safety-critical systems, a very 
structured development process is required where detailed records are maintained. For business 
systems, with rapidly changing requirements, a more flexible, agile process is likely to be better. 
These generic models are high-level, abstract descriptions of software processes that can be used 
to explain different approaches to software development. You can think of them as process 
frameworks that may be extended and adapted to create more specific software engineering 
processes. 