4.4 Requirement Elicitation  
The aims of the requirements elicitation process are to understand the work that stakeholders do 
and how they might use a new system to help support that work. During requirements elicitation, 
software engineers work with stakeholders to find out about the application domain, work 
activities, the services and system features that stakeholders want, the required performance of 
the system, hardware constraints, and so on. 
 
Eliciting and understanding requirements from system stakeholders is a difficult process for 
several reasons; 
 
• Stakeholders often don’t know what they want from a computer system except in the 
most general terms; they may find it difficult to articulate what they want the system to 
do; they may make unrealistic demands because they don’t know what is and isn’t 
feasible. 
• Stakeholders in a system naturally express requirements in their own terms and with 
implicit knowledge of their own work. Requirements engineers, without experience in the 
customer’s domain, may not understand these requirements. 
• Different stakeholders, with diverse requirements, may express their requirements in 
different ways. Requirements engineers have to discover all potential sources of 
requirements and discover commonalities and conflict. 
• Political factors may influence the requirements of a system. Managers may demand 
specific system requirements because these will allow them to increase their influence in 
the organization. 
• The economic and business environment in which the analysis takes place is dynamic. It 
inevitably changes during the analysis process. The importance of particular requirements 
may change. New requirements may emerge from new stakeholders who were not 
originally consulted. 
 
Figure 4.5: The Requirement Elicitation and Analysis Process (Sommerville,  I.  2021)   
 
A process model of the elicitation and analysis process is shown in the Figure above.  
Each organization will have its own version or instantiation of this general model, depending on 
local factors such as the expertise of the staff, the type of system being developed, and the 
standards used.   

The process activities are: 
 
• Requirements discovery and understanding This is the process of interacting with 
stakeholders of the system to discover their requirements. Domain requirements from 
stakeholders and documentation are also discovered during this activity. 
• Requirements classification and organization This activity takes the unstructured 
collection of requirements, groups related requirements and organizes them into 
coherent clusters. 
• Requirements prioritization and negotiation Inevitably, when multiple stakeholders are 
involved, requirements will conflict. This activity is concerned with prioritizing 
requirements and finding and resolving requirements conflicts through negotiation. 
Usually, stakeholders have to meet to resolve differences and agree on compromise 
requirements. 
• Requirements documentation are documented and input into the next round of the spiral. 
An early draft of the software requirements documents may be produced at this stage, or 
the requirements may simply be maintained informally on whiteboards, wikis, or other 
shared spaces. 