Stress testing helps you do two things: 
 
• Test the failure behavior of the system. Circumstances may arise through an unexpected 
combination of events where the load placed on the system exceeds the maximum 
anticipated load. In these circumstances, system failure should not cause data corruption 
or unexpected loss of user services. Stress testing checks that overloading the system 
causes it to “fail-soft” rather than collapse under its load. 
• Reveal defects that only show up when the system is fully loaded. Although it can be 
argued that these defects are unlikely to cause system failures in normal use, there may 
be unusual combinations of circumstances that the stress testing replicates. 
 
Stress testing is particularly relevant to distributed systems based on a network of processors. 
These systems often exhibit severe degradation when they are heavily loaded. The network 
becomes swamped with coordination data that the different processes must exchange. The 
processes become slower and slower as they wait for the required data from other processes.  
 
Stress testing helps you discover when the degradation begins so that you can add checks to the 
system to reject transactions beyond this point. 

6.6 User Testing  
User or customer testing is a stage in the testing process in which users or customers provide 
input and advice on system testing. This may involve formally testing a system that has been 
commissioned from an external supplier. Alternatively, it may be an informal process where users 
experiment with a new software product to see if they like it and to check that it does what they 
need.  
 
User testing is essential, even when comprehensive system and release testing have been carried 
out. Influences from the user’s working environment can have a major effect on the reliability, 
performance, usability, and robustness of a system. 
 
It is practically impossible for a system developer to replicate the system’s working environment, 
as tests in the developer’s environment are inevitably artificial. For example, a system that is 
intended for use in a hospital is used in a clinical environment where other things are going on, 
such as patient emergencies and conversations with relatives. These all affect the use of a system, 
but developers cannot include them in their testing environment. 