2.2.2  Incremental Developmental  

Incremental development is based on the idea of developing an initial implementation, getting 
feedback from users and others, and evolving the software through several versions until the 
required system has been developed.  
Specification, development, and validation activities are interleaved rather than separate, with 
rapid feedback across activities. 

Figure 2.2: The Incremental Development (Sommerville,  I.  2021) 
  
Incremental development in some form is now the most common approach for the development 
of application systems and software products. This approach can be either plan-driven, agile or, 
more usually, a mixture of these approaches. In a plan-driven approach, the system increments 
are identified in advance; if an agile approach is adopted, the early increments are identified, but 
the development of later increments depends on progress and customer priorities.  
Incremental software development, which is a fundamental part of agile development methods, 
is better than a waterfall approach for systems whose requirements are likely to change during 
the development process. This is the case for most business systems and software products. 
Incremental development reflects the way that we solve problems. We rarely work out a 
complete problem solution in advance but move toward a solution in a series of steps, back-
tracking when we realize that we have made a mistake.  

By developing the software incrementally, it is cheaper and easier to make changes in the 
software as it is being developed. Each increment or version of the system incorporates some of 
the functional-ity that is needed by the customer. Generally, the early increments of the system 
include the most important or most urgently required functionality. This means that the customer 
or user can evaluate the system at a relatively early stage in the development to see if it delivers 
what is required. If not, then only the cur-rent increment has to be changed and, possibly, new 
functionality defined for later increments.