There are three different types of user testing: 
 
• Alpha testing, where a selected group of software users work closely with the 
development team to test early releases of the software. 
• Beta testing, where a release of the software is made available to a larger group of users 
to allow them to experiment and to raise problems that they discover with the system 
developers. 
• Acceptance testing, where customers test a system to decide whether or not it is ready to 
be accepted from the system developers and deployed in the customer environment. 
 
In alpha testing, users and developers work together to test a system as it is being developed. 
This means that the users can identify problems and issues that are not readily apparent to the 
development testing team. Developers can only really work from the requirements, but these 
often do not reflect other factors that affect the practical use of the software.  
 
Users can therefore provide information about practice that helps with the design of more 
realistic tests. Alpha testing is often used when developing software products or apps. 
Experienced users of these products may be willing to get involved in the alpha testing process 
because this gives them early information about new system features that they can exploit. It also 
reduces the risk that unanticipated changes to the software will have disruptive effects on their 
business.  
 
However, alpha testing may also be used when custom software is being developed. Agile 
development methods advocate user involvement in the development process, and that users 
should play a key role in designing tests for the system. 

Beta testing takes place when an early, sometimes unfinished, release of a software system is 
made available to a larger group of customers and users for evaluation. Beta testers may be a 
selected group of customers who are early adopters of the system. 
 
Beta testing is mostly used for software products that are used in many different settings. This is 
important as, unlike custom product developers, there is no way for the product developer to 
limit the software’s operating environment. It is impossible for product developers to know and 
replicate all the settings in which the software product will be used. Beta testing is therefore used 
to discover interaction problems between the software and features of its operational 
environment. Beta testing is also a form of marketing. Customers learn about their system and 
what it can do for them. 