2.2.4 Spiral Model  
The Spiral model of software development is shown in the figure below. The diagrammatic 
representation of this model appears like a spiral with many loops. The exact number of loops 
in the spiral is not fixed. Each loop of the spiral represents a phase of the software process. For 
example, the innermost loop might be concerned with feasibility study, the next loop with 
requirements specification, the next one with design, and so on. Each phase in this model is split 
into four sectors (or quadrants). 

Figure 2.3: The Spiral Model (Sommerville,  I.  2021)  
 
The following activities are carried out during each phase of a spiral model. 
i. First quadrant (Objective Setting) 
• During the first quadrant, it is needed to identify the objectives of the phase. 
• Examine the risks associated with these objectives. 
 
ii. Second Quadrant (Risk Assessment and Reduction) 
• A detailed analysis is carried out for each identified project risk. 
• Steps are taken to reduce the risks. For example, if there is a risk that the requirements 
are inappropriate, a prototype system may be developed. 
 
iii. Third Quadrant (Development and Validation) 
• Develop and validate the next level of the product after resolving the identified risks 

iv. Fourth Quadrant (Review and Planning) 
• Review the results achieved so far with the customer and plan the next iteration around 
the spiral  
• Progressively more complete version of the software gets built with the iteration around 
the spiral

The spiral model is called a “meta model” since it encompasses all other life cycle models. Risk 
handling is inherently built into this model. The spiral model is suitable for development of 
technically challenging software products that are prone to several kinds of risks. However, this 
model is much more complex than the other models – this is probably a factor deterring its use 
in ordinary projects 

The different software life cycle models can be compared from the viewpoint of the customer. 
Initially, customer confidence in the development team is usually high irrespective of the 
development model followed. During the lengthy development process, customer confidence 
normally drops off, as no working product is immediately visible. Developers answer customer 
queries using technical slang, and delays are announced. This gives rise to customer resentment.  

On the other hand, an evolutionary approach lets the customer experiment with a working 
product much earlier than the monolithic approaches. Another important advantage of the 
incremental model is that it reduces the customer’s trauma of getting used to an entirely new 
system. The gradual introduction of the product via incremental phases provides time to the 
customer to adjust to the new product. Also, from the customer’s financial viewpoint, 
incremental development does not require a large upfront capital outlay. The customer can order 
the incremental versions as and when he can afford them 