8.7 Agile Scheduling  
Agile methods of software development are iterative approaches where the software is 
developed and delivered to customers in increments. Unlike plan-driven approaches, the 
functionality of these increments is not planned in advance but is decided during the 
development. The decision on what to include in an increment depends on progress and on the 
customer’s priorities. The argument for this approach is that the customer’s priorities and 
requirements change, so it makes sense to have a flexible plan that can accommodate these 
changes. Cohn’s book (Cohn 2005) is an excellent introduction to agile planning. 
 
Agile development methods such as Scrum (Rubin 2013) and Extreme Programming (Beck and 
Andres 2004) have a two-stage approach to planning, corresponding to the startup phase in plan-
driven development and development planning: 
 
• Release planning, which looks ahead for several months and decides on the features that 
should be included in a release of a system. 
• Iteration planning, which has a shorter term outlook and focuses on planning the next 
increment of a system. This usually represents 2 to 4 weeks of work for the team. 

8.8 Quality Management  
Software quality management is concerned with ensuring that developed software systems are 
and reliably, and should be delivered on time and within budget. The use of quality management 
techniques along with new software technologies and testing methods has led to significant 
improvements in the level of software quality over the past 20 years. 
 
Formalized quality management (QM) is particularly important in teams that are developing 
large, long-lifetime systems that take several years to develop. These systems are developed for 
external clients, usually using a plan-based process. For these systems, quality management is 
both an organizational and an individual project issue: 
 
• At an organizational level, quality management is concerned with establishing a 
framework of organizational processes and standards that will lead to high-quality 
software. The QM team should take responsibility for defining the software development 
processes to be used and standards that should apply to the software and related 
documentation, including the system requirements, design, and code. 
• At a project level, quality management involves the application of specific qual-ity 
processes, checking that these planned processes have been followed, and ensuring that 
the project outputs meet the defined project standards. Project quality management may 
also involve defining a quality plan for a project. The quality plan should set out the quality 
goals for the project and define what processes and standards are to be used. 
 
Software quality management techniques have their roots in methods and techniques that were 
developed in manufacturing industries, where the terms quality assurance and quality control are 
widely used. Quality assurance is the definition of processes and standards that should lead to 
high-quality products and the introduction of quality pro-cesses into the manufacturing process. 
Quality control is the application of these quality processes to weed out products that are not of 
the required level of quality. Both quality assurance and quality control are part of quality 
management. 
 
In the software industry, some companies see quality assurance as the definition of procedures, 
processes, and standards to ensure that software quality is achieved. In other companies, quality 
assurance also includes all configuration management, verification, and validation activities that 
are applied after a product has been handed over by a development team. 
 
Quality management provides an independent check on the software development process. The 
QM team checks the project deliverables to ensure that they are consistent with organizational 
standards and goals.  They also check process documentation, which records the tasks that have 
been completed by each team working on this project. The QM team uses documentation to 
check that important tasks have not been forgotten or that one group has not made incorrect 
assumptions about what other groups have done 

Figure 8.4: Quality management and Software development (Sommerville,  I.  2021)   