3.5.  Practical Problems with Agile Methodology  
In some areas, particularly in the development of software products and apps, agile development 
has been incredibly successful. It is by far the best approach to use for this type of system.  
However, agile methods may not be suitable for other types of software development, such as 
embedded systems engineering or the development of large and complex systems. For large, 
long-lifetime systems that are developed by a software company for an external client, using an 
agile approach presents a number of problems. 
 
i. The informality of agile development is incompatible with the legal approach to 
contract definition that is commonly used in large companies. 
ii. Agile methods are most appropriate for new software development rather than 
for software maintenance. Yet, the majority of software costs in large companies 
come from maintaining their existing software systems. 
iii. Agile methods are designed for small co-located teams, yet much software 
development now involves worldwide distributed teams 
 
Contractual issues can be a major problem when agile methods are used. When the system 
customer uses an outside organization for system development, a contract for the software 
development is drawn up between them. The software requirements document is usually part of 
that contract between the customer and the supplier. Because the interleaved development of 
requirements and code is fundamental to agile methods, there is no definitive statement of 
requirements that can be included in the contract. 
 
Consequently, agile methods have to rely on contracts in which the customer pays for the time 
required for system development rather than the development of a specific set of requirements. 
As long as all goes well, this benefits both the customer and the developer. However, if problems 
arise, then there may be difficult disputes over who is to blame and who should pay for the extra 
time and resources required to resolve the problems. 

Another key challenge in using an agile approach to maintenance is keeping customers involved 
in the process. While a customer may be able to justify the full-time involvement of a 
representative during system development, this is less likely during maintenance where changes 
are not continuous. Customer representatives are likely to lose interest in the system.  
Agile methods rely on team members understanding aspects of the system without having to 
consult documentation. If an agile development team is broken up, then this implicit knowledge 
is lost, and it is difficult for new team members to build up the same understanding of the system 
and its components. Many programmers prefer to work on new development to software 
maintenance, and so they are unwilling to continue to work on a software system after the first 
release has been delivered. Therefore, even when the intention is to keep the development team 
together, people leave if they are assigned maintenance tasks. 

Table 3.4: Agile practices and organizational practices