Figure 8.5: Configuration management activities (Sommerville,  I.  2021)    
 
Configuration management tools are used to store versions of system components, build systems 
from these components, track the releases of system versions to customers, and keep track of 
change proposals. CM tools range from simple tools that support a single configuration 
management task, such as bug tracking, to integrated environments that support all configuration 
management activities. 

The development of a software product or custom software system takes place in three distinct 
phases: 

• A development phase where the development team is responsible for managing the 
software configuration and new functionality is being added to the software. The 
development team decides on the changes to be made to the system. 
• A system testing phase where a version of the system is released internally for testing. 
This may be the responsibility of a quality management team or an individual or group 
within the development team. At this stage, no new functionality is added to the system. 
The changes made at this stage are bug fixes, performance improvements, and security 
vulnerability repairs. There may be some customer involvement as beta testers during this 
phase. 
• A release phase where the software is released to customers for use. After the release has 
been distributed, customers may submit bug reports and change requests. New versions 
of the released system may be developed to repair bugs and vulnerabilities and to include 
new features suggested by customers. 
 
For large systems, there is never just one “working” version of a system; there are always several 
versions of the system at different stages of development teams may be involved in the 
development of different system versions. 

Figure 8.6: Multiversion system development (Sommerville,  I.  2021)   
   
• Version 1.5 of the system has been developed to repair bug fixes and improve the 
performance of the first release of the system. It is the basis of the second system 
release (R1.1). 
• Version 2.4 is being tested with a view to it becoming release 2.0 of the system. No 
new features are being added at this stage. 
• Version 3 is a development system where new features are being added in response 
to change requests from customers and the development team. This will eventually 
be released as release 3.0. 
 
These different versions have many common components as well as components or component 
versions that are unique to that system version. The CM system keeps track of the components 
that are part of each version and includes them as required in the system build. 
Version management is the process of keeping track of different versions of software 
components and the systems in which these components are used. It also involves ensuring that 
changes made by different developers to these versions do not interfere with each other. In other 
words, version management is the process of managing code-lines and baselines. 