3.4.  Agile Project Management 
In any software business, managers need to know what is going on and whether or not a project 
is likely to meet its objectives and deliver the software on time with the proposed budget. Plan-
driven approaches to software development evolved to meet this need.  
A plan-based approach requires a manager to have a stable view of everything that has to be 
developed and the development processes. The informal planning and project control that was 
proposed by the early adherents of agile methods clashed with this business requirement for 
visibility. Teams were self-organizing, did not produce documentation, and planned development 
in very short cycles.  

While this can and does work for small companies developing software products, it is 
inappropriate for larger companies who need to know what is going on in their organization. Like 
every other professional software development process, agile development has to be managed 
so that the best use is made of the time and resources available to the team. To address this issue, 
the Scrum agile method was developed to provide a framework for organizing agile projects and, 
to some extent at least, provide external visibility of what is going on. The developers of Scrum 
wished to make clear that Scrum was not a method for project management in the conventional 
sense, so they deliberately invented new terminology, such as ScrumMaster, which replaced 
names such as project manager.  

Table 3.3: Scrum Terminology 
 
Scrum is an agile method insofar as it follows the principles from the agile manifesto. However, it 
focuses on providing a framework for agile project organization, and it does not mandate the use 
of specific development practices such as pair programming and test-first development. This 
means that it can be more easily integrated with existing practice in a company.  
Consequently, as agile methods have become a mainstream approach to software development, 
Scrum has emerged as the most widely used method. The Scrum process or sprint cycle is shown 
in the figure below.  The input to the process is the product backlog. Each process iteration 
produces a product increment that could be delivered to customers. 
 
The starting point for the Scrum sprint cycle is the product backlog—the list of items such as 
product features, requirements, and engineering improvement that have to be worked on by the 
Scrum team. The initial version of the product backlog may be derived from a requirements 
document, a list of user stories, or other description of the software to be developed.

Figure 3.3 The Scrum Sprint circle (Sommerville,  I.  2021) 