Software inspection has three advantages over testing: 

i. During testing, errors can mask (hide) other errors. When an error leads to 
unexpected outputs, you can never be sure if later output anomalies are due to a 
new error or are side effects of the original error. Because inspection doesn’t 
involve executing the system, you don’t have to worry about interactions between 
errors. Consequently, a single inspection session can discover many errors in a 
system.  
 
ii. Incomplete versions of a system can be inspected without additional costs. If a 
program is incomplete, then you need to develop specialized test harnesses to test 
the parts that are available. This obviously adds to the system development costs. 
 
iii. As well as searching for program defects, an inspection can also consider broader 
quality attributes of a program, such as compliance with standards, portability, and 
maintainability. You can look for inefficiencies, inappropriate algorithms, and poor 
programming style that could make the system difficult to maintain and update. 

6.3 Development Testing  

Development testing includes all testing activities that are carried out by the team developing the 
system. The tester of the software is usually the programmer who developed that software. Some 
development processes use programmer/tester pairs where each programmer has an associated 
tester who develops tests and assists with the testing process.  
For critical systems, a more formal process may be used, with a separate testing group within the 
development team. This group is responsible for developing tests and maintaining detailed 
records of test results. 
There are three stages of development testing: 
 
• Unit testing, where individual program units or object classes are tested. Unit testing 
should focus on testing the functionality of objects or methods. 
• Component testing, where several individual units are integrated to create com-posite 
components. Component testing should focus on testing the component interfaces that 
provide access to the component functions. 
• System testing, where some or all of the components in a system are integrated and the 
system is tested as a whole. System testing should focus on testing com-ponent 
interactions. 
 
Development testing is primarily a defect testing process, where the aim of testing is to 
discover bugs in the software. 