The eth0 interface is a 10Mbps Ethernet interface. The MAC and IP address information is displayed 
in this output as well. The result above didn’t show the output for DNS information but this ifconfig 
for the tool can.  
Ping Utility  
The most commonly used network tool is the ping utility. This utility is used to provide a basic 
connectivity test between the requesting host and a destination host. This is done by using the Internet 
Control Message Protocol (ICMP) which has the ability to send an echo packet to a destination host and a 
mechanism to listen for a response from this host. Simply stated, if the requesting host receives a 
response from the destination host, this host is reachable. This utility is commonly used to provide a basic 
picture of where a specific networking problem may exist. For example, if an Internet connection is down 
at an office, the ping utility can be used to figure out whether the problem exists within the office or 
within the network of the Internet provider. Below shows an example of the ping utility to select; 
 
Below shows an example of the ping utility is used to obtain the reachability status of the locally 
connected router. 
 
Figure 40: Pimg Utility 
 
Using ARP Utility  
Windows 2000 TCP/IP allows an application to communicate over a network with another computer 
by using either an IP address, a host name, or a NetBIOS name. However, regardless of which 
naming convention is used, the destination must ultimately be resolved to a hardware address 
(media access control (MAC) address) for shared access media such as Ethernet and Token Ring. 
The Address Resolution Protocol (ARP) allows a host to find the MAC address of a node with an IP 
address on the same physical network, when given the node's IP address. To make ARP efficient, 
each computer caches IP-to-MAC address mappings to eliminate repetitive ARP broadcast requests. 
The Arp tool allows a user to view and modify ARP table entries on the local computer. 
The arp command is useful for viewing the ARP cache and resolving address resolution problems. 