if the example above had continued to time out after line 9, you could suspect that global-
gateway.co.nz was the problem, and not mediacollege.com. 
If it timed out after line 1, you would know there was a problem connecting to your ISP (in this case 
you would not be able to access anything on the internet). 
It is generally recommended that if you have a website that is unreachable, you should use both the 
traceroute and ping commands before you contact your ISP to complain. More often than not, there 
will be nothing to your ISP or hosting company can do about it. 
ipconfig and ifconfig 
Windows uses ipconfig and UNIX/LINUX/Mac uses ifconfig to display the current configuration of 
TCP/IP on a given workstation including the current IP address, DNS configuration, Windows Internet 
Naming Services (WINS) configuration, and default gateway.  
Ipconfig utility 
All new operating systems such as Mac, Windows Vista, Windows 7, 8 and 10 and Windows server 
2008/ 2012 IPv6 configuration is available by default. The output if the command ipconfig is 
executed you see something like this because I am not connected to the internet:  

But when connected to the internet you will see something like this:  
 
Using ifconfig 

Normally for Mac, Linux and UNIX uses this utility and gives you the similar information to the 
ipconfig. Interface configuration(ifconfig) there are major differences ipconfig is used to view 
TCPP/IP configuration for a computer where as ifconfig do the same with extra as configuring 
protocol or a particular network interface. The command is as follows: 
ifconfig interface [address [parameters] ] 
the interface parameter euqals the unix name of the interface, such as eth0. If the optional address 
parameter is specified, the ifconfig command sets the IP address for the interface to the address 
you’ve specified. When the ifconfig command is used by itself with no parameters, all configured 
interfaces will be reported on. But if only the interface name is specified, you will get output that 
looks like this: 