Figure 3: Resource sharing on a simple peer-to-peer network 
The following are advantages of using traditional peer-to-peer networks: 
 They are simple to configure. 

For this reason, they may be used in environments in which 
time or technical expertise is scarce. They are often less expensive to set up and maintain than other types of networks. This fact 
makes them suitable for environments in which saving money is critical. 

The following are disadvantages of using traditional peer-to-peer networks: 
They are not very flexible. As a peer-to-peer network grows larger, adding or changing 
significant elements of the network may be difficult. 
They are also not necessarily secure—meaning that in simple installations, data and other 
resources shared by network users can be easily discovered and used by unauthorized 
people. They are not practical for connecting more than a handful of computers, because they do 
not always centralize resources. 

For example, if your computer is part of a peer-to-peer network that includes five other computers, 
and each computer user stores her spread sheets and word-processing files on her own hard disk, 
whenever your colleagues want to edit your files, they must access your machine on the network. If 
one colleague saves a changed version of one of your spread sheets on her hard disk, you’ll find it 
difficult to keep track of which version is the most current. As you can imagine, the more computers 
you add to a peer-to-peer network, the more difficult it becomes to find and manage resources. 

A common way to share resources on a peer-to-peer network is by modifying the file-sharing 
controls via the computer’s operating system. For example, you could choose to create a directory 
on your computer’s hard disk called “SharedDocs” and then configure the directory to allow all 
networked computers to read its files. On a peer-to-peer network, each user is responsible for 
configuring her computer to allow access to certain resources and prevent access to others. In other 
words, resource sharing is not controlled by a central computer or authority. Because access 
depends on many different users, it might not be uniform or secure.