3.8 VLANS 

A VLAN is a group of devices on one or more LANs that are configured to communicate as if they 
were attached to the same wire, when in fact they are located on a number of different LAN 
segments. Because VLANs are based on logical instead of physical connections, they are extremely 
flexible. VLANs define broadcast domains in a Layer 2 network. A broadcast domain is the set of all devices 
that will receive broadcast frames originating from any device within the set. Broadcast domains are 
typically bounded by routers because routers do not forward broadcast frames. Layer 2 switches 
create broadcast domains based on the configuration of the switch. Switches are multiport bridges 
that allow you to create multiple broadcast domains. Each broadcast domain is like a distinct virtual 
bridge within a switch. You can define one or many virtual bridges within a switch. Each virtual bridge you create in the 
switch defines a new broadcast domain (VLAN). Traffic cannot pass directly to another VLAN 
(between broadcast domains) within the switch or between two switches. To interconnect two 
different VLANs, you must use routers or Layer 3 switches. See the "Overview of Layer 3 Interfaces" 
section for information on inter-VLAN routing on Catalyst 4500 series switches. Figure below shows 
an example of three VLANs that create logically defined networks. 
 
Figure 59: Sample VLANs 
VLANs are often associated with IP subnetworks. For example, all of the end stations in a particular 
IP subnet belong to the same VLAN. Traffic between VLANs must be routed. You must assign LAN 
interface VLAN membership on an interface-by-interface basis (this is known as interface-based or 
static VLAN membership). 
You can set the following parameters when you create a VLAN in the management domain: 
 VLAN number 
 VLAN name 
 VLAN type 
 VLAN state (active or suspended) 
 Maximum transmission unit (MTU) for the VLAN 
 Security Association Identifier (SAID) 
 VLAN number to use when translating from one VLAN type to another 