Subdomains of the organization, below the second-level domain. The individual organization 
is responsible for the creation and maintenance of subdomains. 
For example, for the FQDN ftpsrv.wcoast.reskit.com: 
 The trailing period ( . ) denotes that this is an FQDN with the name relative to the root of the 
domain namespace. The trailing period is usually not required for FQDNs and if it is missing it 
is assumed to be present. 
 com is the top-level domain, indicating a commercial organization. 
 reskit is the second-level domain, indicating the Windows 2000 Resource Kit organization. 
 wcoast is a subdomain of reskit.com indicating the West Coast division of the 
Windows 2000 Resource Kit organization. 
 ftpsrv is the name of the FTP server in the West Coast division. 
Domain names are not case sensitive. 
Organizations not connected to the Internet can implement whatever top and second-level domain 
names they want. However, typical implementations do adhere to the InterNIC specification so that 
eventual participation in the Internet will not require a renaming process. 
 
Using the Mtr command (pathping) 
In an effort to take advantage of the benefits of both the ping and tracert/traceroute commands, the 
pathping and mtr utilities were developed. Both of these tools take the functionality and information that 
can be obtained from these types of tools and provide a more detailed single picture of the path 
characteristics from a specific host to a specific destination. Figure 11 and 12 below show examples of 
these two tools and what information they provide. 

Figure 44: Path Ping 
 
Figure 45: Mtr 
Using the route command 
The last of the tools covered in this article is the route utility. This utility is used to display the current 
status of the routing table on a host. While the use of the route utility is limited in common situations 
where the host only has a single IP address with a single gateway, it is vital in other situations where 
multiple IP address and multiple gateways are available. Figure below shows an example of the route 
utility being used on a Windows machine. 
