3.6 DHCP  
What Is DHCP? 
3.6.1 Applies To: Windows Server 2008 
Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol (DHCP) is a client/server protocol that automatically provides 
an Internet Protocol (IP) host with its IP address and other related configuration information such as 
the subnet mask and default gateway. RFCs 2131 and 2132 define DHCP as an Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF) standard based on Bootstrap Protocol (BOOTP), a protocol with which DHCP shares 
many implementation details. DHCP allows hosts to obtain required TCP/IP configuration 
information from a DHCP server. 
Windows Server® 2008 includes the DHCP Server service, which is an optional networking 
component. All Windows-based clients include the DHCP client as part of TCP/IP, including 
Windows Vista®, the Windows Server®°2003 operating system, the Windows® XP Professional 
operating system, Microsoft Windows®°2000 Professional operating system, Microsoft 
Windows°NT® Workstation°4.0 operating system, Microsoft Windows® Millennium Edition operating 
system, and the Microsoft Windows®°98 operating system. 

3.6.2 Why use DHCP? 
Every device on a TCP/IP-based network must have a unique unicast IP address to access the 
network and its resources. Without DHCP, IP addresses for new computers or computers that are 
moved from one subnet to another must be configured manually; IP addresses for computers that 
are removed from the network must be manually reclaimed. 
With DHCP, this entire process is automated and managed centrally. The DHCP server maintains a 
pool of IP addresses and leases an address to any DHCP-enabled client when it starts up on the 
network. Because the IP addresses are dynamic (leased) rather than static (permanently assigned), 
addresses no longer in use are automatically returned to the pool for reallocation. 
The network administrator establishes DHCP servers that maintain TCP/IP configuration information 
and provide address configuration to DHCP-enabled clients in the form of a lease offer. The DHCP 
server stores the configuration information in a database that includes:

