2.4  Four levels of Data 
Data can be broken down into one of four levels which are: 
• The nominal level - The first level of data, the nominal level, consists of data that is described 
purely by name or category. Basic examples include gender, nationality, species, or yeast 
strain in a beer. They are not described by numbers and are therefore qualitative (Sinan, 
2016). 
• The ordinal level - The nominal level did not provide us with much flexibility in terms of 
mathematical operations due to one seemingly unimportant fact—we could not order the 
observations in any natural way. Data in the ordinal level provides us with a rank order, or the 
means to place one observation before the other; however, it does not provide us with 
relative differences between observations, meaning that while we may order the observations 
from first to last, we cannot add or subtract them to get any real meaning (Sinan, 2016). 
• The interval level - Now we are getting somewhere interesting. At the interval level, we are 
beginning to look at data that can be expressed through very quantifiable means, and where 
much more complicated mathematical formulas are allowed. The basic difference between 
the ordinal level and the interval level is, well, just that—difference. Data at the interval level 
allows meaningful subtraction between data points (Sinan, 2016). 
• The ratio level - Finally, we will take a look at the ratio level. After moving through three 
different levels with differing levels of allowed mathematical operations, the ratio level proves 
to be the strongest of the four. Not only can we define order and difference, the ratio level 
allows us to multiply and divide as well. This might seem like not much to make a fuss over 
but it changes almost everything about the way we view data at this level (Sinan, 2016). 
 
Measure of Centre 
A measure of centre is a number that describes what the data tends to achieve. It is also referred to 
as the balance point of the data. Common examples include the mean, median, and mode. To 
determine the centre of nominal data, we generally turn to the mode (the most common element) of 
the dataset. For example, look back at the WHO alcohol consumption data. The most common 
continent surveyed was Africa, making that a possible choice for the centre of the continent column 
(Sinan, 2016).