5.5 Conditional Probability 
Let's select a random person from this study of 100 people. Let's also assume that you are told that 
their test result was positive. What is the probability of them actually having cancer? So, we are told 
that event B has already taken place, and that their test came back positive. The question now is: what 
is the probability that they have cancer, that is P(A)? This is called a conditional probability of A given 
B or P(A|B). Effectively, it is asking you to calculate the probability of an event given that another 
event has already happened (Sinan, 2016). 
 
You can think of conditional probability as changing the relevant universe. P(A|B) (called the 
probability of A given B) is a way of saying, given that my entire universe is now B, what is the 
probability of A? This is also known as transforming the sample space. 
 
 
 
 
Zooming in on our previous diagram, our universe is now B, and we are concerned with AB (A and B) 
inside of B. 
 
The formula can be given as follows: 
P(A|B) = P(A and B) / P(B) = (20/100) / (30/100) = 20/30 = .66 = 66% 
 
There is a 66% chance that if a test result came back positive, that person had cancer. In reality, this 
is the main probability that the experimenters want. They want to know how good the test is at 
predicting cancer.

5.6 The rules of probability 
In probability, we have some rules that become very useful when visualization gets too cumbersome. 
These rules help us calculate compound probabilities with ease. 
 
The Addition rule 
The addition rule is used to calculate the probability of either or events. To calculate P(A  B) = 
P(A or B), we use the following formula: P(A  B) = P(A) + P(B) − P(A ∩ B) 
 
The first part of the formula (P(A) + P(B)) makes complete sense. To get the union of the two 
events, we have to add together the area of the circles in the universe. But why the subtraction of P(A 
and B)? This is because when we add the two circles, we are adding the area of intersection twice, as 
shown in the following diagram: 