1.3 The Data Science Venn diagram 
It's a widespread misconception that only people with PhDs or exceptional intelligence can 
comprehend the math and programming that go into data science. This is completely untrue. The 
three fundamental areas for understanding data science are illustrated in the Venn diagram below:


• Math/statistics: Represents the use of equations and formulas to perform data analysis 
• Computer programming: This is the ability to use code to create outcomes on the computer 
• Domain knowledge: refers to understanding the problem domain (medicine, finance, social 
science, and so on) 
 
The intersection of the three key areas depicted in the Venn diagram is Data Science. To extract 
knowledge from data, we must be able to use computer programming to access the data, understand 
the mathematics behind the models we derive, and, most importantly, understand the context of our 
analyses. This includes data presentation or visualization. As a data scientist it is critical you have an 
understanding of these key areas. In this module we will guide you through the math required for data 
science, precisely statistics and probability. We will use these subdomains of mathematics to construct 
what are called models. A data model refers to an organized and formal relationship between 
elements of data, usually meant to simulate a real-world phenomenon (Sinan, 2016). 
 
Math and Statistics Knowledge - Do not stress about the math in this module, it is fundamentally 
structured for Data Science and ranges from basic algebra to advanced probabilistic and statistical 
modelling. Basically, we will use math in order to formalize relationships between variables. 
 
There are several types of data models, including probabilistic and statistical models. Both of these 
are subsets of a larger paradigm, called machine learning. The basic idea behind these three topics is 
that we use data in order to develop the best model possible. We no longer trust our instincts, rather, 
we will rely on data. 

Figure 2.1 - The Venn Diagram of Data Science 
Source: (Sinan, 2016) 

