Types of supervised learning 
There are, in general, two types of supervised learning models: regression and classification. The 
difference between the two is quite simple and lies in the response variable: 
• Regression - Regression models attempt to predict a continuous response. This means that 
the response can take on a range of infinite values. 
• Classification - Classification attempts to predict a categorical response, which means that the 
response only has a finite amount of choices. 

Figure 4.3 – Supervised Machine Learning 

Example of Regression 
Linear regression is an algorithm that offers a linear relationship between an independent variable 
and a dependent variable to predict the outcome of future events. It is a statistical method used in 
data science and machine learning for predictive analysis (Kanade , 2023). 
 
The independent variable is also the predictor variable that remains unchanged due to the change in 
other variables. However, the dependent variable changes with fluctuations in the independent 
variable. The regression model predicts the value of the dependent variable. Therefore, linear 
regression is a supervised learning algorithm that simulates a mathematical relationship between 
variables and makes predictions for continuous or numeric variables such as sales, salary, age, product 
price, etc. (Kanade , 2023). 
 
Let's consider a simple example with one independent variable. Suppose we want to predict a person's 
exam score based on the number of hours they studied. We have a small dataset with the number of 
hours studied and the corresponding exam scores. The Python code shown attempts to realize this 
prediction using the scikit-learn library: 
 
Copy Extract 4.1 – Predict Learner’s Score 
 
import numpy as np 
import matplotlib.pyplot as plt 
from sklearn.linear_model import LinearRegression 
 
# Sample data 
hours_studied = np.array([1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10]).reshape(-1, 1) 
exam_scores = np.array([50, 60, 70, 75, 85, 90, 95, 100, 110, 120])