4.4.1 Supervised Learning 
Supervised learning is a type of machine learning where an algorithm is trained on a labelled dataset 
that includes both input variables (features) and output variables (labels). The algorithm learns to map 
the input variables to the correct output variable by identifying patterns and relationships within the 
data. The goal of supervised learning is to accurately predict the labels of new, unseen data. Common 
supervised learning algorithms include linear regression, logistic regression, decision trees, and 
artificial neural networks. Supervised learning is commonly used in applications such as image 
classification, speech recognition, and prediction modelling. Supervised machine learning models are 
often called predictive analytics models, named for their ability to predict the future based on the 
past. 
 
Specifically, supervised learning works using parts of the data to predict another part. First, we must 
separate data into two parts, as follows (Sinan, 2016): 
 
• The predictors, which are the columns that will be used to make our prediction. These are 
sometimes called features, inputs, variables, and independent variables. 
• The response, which is the column that we wish to predict. This is sometimes called outcome, 
label, target, and dependent variable. 
 
Example – Heart attack prediction 
Suppose we wish to predict if someone will have a heart attack within a year. To predict this, we are 
given that person's cholesterol, blood pressure, height, their smoking habits, and perhaps more. From 
this data, we must ascertain the likelihood of a heart attack. Suppose, to make this prediction, we look 
at the previous patients and their medical history. As these are previous patients, we know not only 
their predictors (cholesterol, blood pressure, and so on), but we also know if they actually had a heart 
attack (because it already happened!).

The hope here is that a patient will walk in tomorrow and our model will be able to identify whether 
or not the patient is at risk for a heart attack based on her/his conditions (just like a doctor would!). 
As the model sees more and more labelled data, it adjusts itself in order to match the correct labels 
given to us. We can use different metrics (explained later in this chapter) to pinpoint exactly how well 
our supervised machine learning model is doing and how it can better adjust itself. 
 
One of the biggest drawbacks of supervised machine learning is that we need this labelled data, which 
can be very difficult to get a hold of. Suppose we wish to predict heart attacks, we might need 
thousands of patients along with all of their filled in medical information and years' worth of follow-
up records for each person, which could be a nightmare to obtain. In short, supervised models use 
historical labelled data in order to make predictions about the future (Sinan, 2016). 