Let's now pretend that our universe involves a research study on humans, and the A event is people 
in that study who have cancer. If our study has 100 people and A has 25 people, the probability of A 
or P(A) is 25/100. The maximum probability of any event is 1. This can be understood as the red circle 
grows so large that it is the size of the universe (the larger circle). 
 
The most basic examples (I promise they will get more interesting) are coin flips. Let's say we have 
two coins and we want the probability that we will roll two heads. We can very easily count the 
number of ways two coins could end up being two heads. There's only one! Both coins have to be 
heads. But how many options are there? It could either be two heads, two tails, or a heads/tails 
combination (Sinan, 2016). 
 
First, let's define A. It is the event in which two heads occur. The number of ways that A can occur is 
1. The sample space of the experiment is {HH, HT, TH, TT}, where each two letter word indicates the 
outcome of the first and second coin simultaneously. The size of the sample space is four. So, P (getting 
two heads) = 1/4. Let's refer to a quick visual table to prove it. The following table denotes the options 
for coin 1 as the columns and the options for coin 2 as the rows. In each cell, there is either a True or 
a False. A True value indicates that it satisfies the condition (both heads) and False indicates otherwise. 
 
 
5.3 Bayesian versus Frequentist 
The previous example was almost too easy. In practice, we can barely ever truly count the number of 
ways something can happen. For example, let's say that we want to know the probability of a random 
person smoking cigarettes at least once a day. If we wanted to approach this problem using the 
classical way (the previous formula), we would need to figure out how many different ways a person 
is a smoker—someone who smokes at least once a day—which is not possible! 
 
When faced with such a problem, two main schools of thought are considered when it comes to 
calculating probabilities in practice: The Frequentist approach and the Bayesian approach. This 
chapter will focus heavily on the Frequentist approach while the subsequent chapter will dive into the 
Bayesian analysis. 