Structured data is usually easier to work with and analyse as opposed to unstructured data. Most 
statistical and machine learning models were built using structured data and cannot function on the 
unreliable interpretation of unstructured data. So why even talk about unstructured data? Because it 
is so common! Most estimates place unstructured data as 80-90% of the world's data. This data exists 
in various forms such as tweets, e-mails, literature, and server logs. While data scientists may prefer 
structured data, they must be able to deal with the world's massive amounts of unstructured data. To 
prepare unstructured data for data analysis, we employ a pre-analysis technique called preprocessing. 
The next chapter will deal with preprocessing in great detail; for now, we will consider the part of 
preprocessing wherein we attempt to apply transformations to convert unstructured data into a 
structured counterpart (Sinan, 2016). 
 
2.3 Quantitative versus qualitative data 
In the scientific field when prompted as to the type of data, it generally implies whether the data is 
quantitative or qualitative. These two data types can be defined as follows: 
 
• Quantitative data: This data can be described as numbers, and basic mathematical 
procedures, including addition, are possible on the set. It represents quantities or amounts 
and is typically collected through standardized methods such as surveys, experiments, or 
direct measurements (Chohan, 2019). 
 
• Qualitative data: This data cannot be described using numbers and basic mathematics. This 
data is generally thought of as being described using "natural" categories and language. In 
other words, it is more descriptive information that describes the qualifies or characteristics 
of an entity rather than being measured in numbers. It is collected through methods such as 
interviews, observations, or open-ended surveys and provides a deeper understanding of the 
underlying reasons, opinions, behaviours, or emotions of individuals or groups (Chohan, 
2019). 