So, basically, I want the following: 
• P (A and B): P (I choose a person with an iPhone and a person with an iPhone) 
So, I can use my P (A and B) = P(A) · P(B|A) formula. 
P(A) is simple, right? People with iPhones are 6 out of 10, so, I have a 6/10 = 3/5 = 0.6 
chance of A. This means P(A) = 0.6. 
So, if I have a 0.6 chance of choosing someone with an iPhone, the probability of 
choosing two should just be 0.6 * 0.6, right? 
But wait! We only have 9 people left to choose our second person from, because one 
was taken away. So, in our new transformed sample space, we have 9 people in total, 
5 with iPhones and 4 with droids, making P(B) = 5/9 = .555. 
So, the probability of choosing two people with iPhones is 0.6 * 0.555 = 0.333 = 33%. 
4I have a 1/3 chance of choosing two people with iPhones out of 10. The conditional 
probability is very important in the multiplication rule as it can drastically alter your 
answer. 
Independence 
Two events are independent if one event does not affect the outcome of the other, 
that is P(B|A) = P(B) and P(A|B) = P(A). 
If two events are independent, then: 
P (A ∩ B) = P(A) · P(B|A) = P(A) · P(B) 

Some examples of independent events are as follows: 
• It was raining in San Francisco, and a puppy was born in India 
• Flip a coin and get heads and flip another coin and get tails 
None of these pairs of events affect each other. 

3.8. Discrete and continuous probability distributions. 
 
Probability distributions are fundamental tools in statistics and data science, providing a 
way to model and understand the uncertainty in various phenomena. Discrete 
probability distributions, such as the binomial and Poisson distributions, deal with 
outcomes that can be counted and are often used to analyse discrete random 
variables. These distributions are essential for predicting and understanding outcomes 
ranging from the number of successes in a fixed number of trials to the number of 
customers visiting a store in a day. Let’s explore the fascinating world of discrete 
probability distributions and their applications in modelling and predicting random 
events. 

Significance of Probability distributions in Data Science  
In a way, most of the data science and machine learning operations are dependent on 
several assumptions about the probability of your data. Probability distribution allows 
a skilled data analyst to recognize and comprehend patterns from large data sets; that 
is, otherwise, entirely random variables and values. Thus, it makes probability 
distribution a toolkit based on which we can summarize a large data set. The density 
function and distribution techniques can also help in plotting data, thus supporting 
data analysts to visualize data and extract meaning. 