Structured Vs Unstructured Data 

As many are aware, twenty-first century corporations are facing a crisis. Many corporations 
have been accurately and comprehensively storing data for years. The problem is, they are ill-
equipped to do anything with this massive collection of data.  Big data is so comprehensive 
that it has become unwieldy, and the average corporation is unable to retrieve or organize 
this data in any useful way. 
The fundamental difference between structured data and unstructured data, as you might 
expect, is that structured data is organized in a highly mechanized and manageable way.  
Structured data is ready for seamless integration into a database or well-structured file 
format.  Unstructured data, by contrast, is raw and unorganized.  Digging through 
unstructured data can be cumbersome and costly. 
 
In an ideal world, a company's goal would be to turn all the big data they've amassed into 
structured data. However, the cost and time associated with this is unfeasible. Of course, if it 
was possible or feasible to instantly transform unstructured data to structured data, then 
creating intelligence from unstructured data would be easy. However, structured data is akin 
to machine-language, in that it makes information much easier to deal with using computers; 
whereas unstructured data is (loosely speaking) usually for humans, who don’t easily interact 
with information in strict, database format. 

Example of Unstructured Data  
Email is an example of unstructured data since email is almost unistructural. It's indexed by 
date, time, sender, recipient, and subject, but the body of an email remains unstructured. 
While the busy inbox might be arranged by date, time or size; if it were truly fully structured, 
it would also be arranged by exact subject and content, with no deviation or spread – which 
is impractical, because people don’t generally speak about precisely one subject even in 
focused emails. 
Other examples of unstructured data include books, documents, medical records, and social 
media posts. 

Example of Structured Data 
Spreadsheets would be considered structured data, which can be quickly scanned for 
information because it is properly arranged in a relational database system. 
The challenge of unstructured data is one of volume. Importantly, this is not to say that 
structured data remains entirely unproblematic. By its very nature, structured data needs to 
remain relatively simplistic and uncomplicated.  A data point can only be called structured if 
it is simple, categorized, and entirely finite, which might suggest to readers that unstructured 
data is more interesting (and therefore worth archiving) data. 

People also use structured data every day. Structured data is anything that has an enforced 
composition to the atomic data types. Structured data is managed by technology that allows 
for querying and reporting against predetermined data types and understood relationships. 
People use unstructured data every day. Although they may not be aware, they use it for 
creating, storing and retrieving reports, e-mails, spreadsheets and other types of documents. 
Unstructured data consists of any data stored in an unstructured format at an atomic level. 
That is, in the unstructured content, there is no conceptual definition and no data type 
definition - in textual documents, a word is simply a word. Some current technologies used 
for content searches on unstructured data require tagging entities such as names or applying 
keywords and meta tags. Therefore, human intervention is required to help make the 
unstructured data machine readable. 