Let's begin by learning a very important value in statistics, the z-score. 
The z-score is a way of telling us how far away a single data value is from the mean. 
The z-score of a x data value is as follows: 
 
Remember that the standard deviation was (sort of) an average distance that the data is from 
the mean, and now, the z-score is an individualized value for each data point. We can find the 
z-score of a data value by subtracting it from the mean and dividing it by the standard 
deviation. The output will be the standardized distance a value is from a mean. We use the z-
score all over statistics. It is a very effective way of normalizing data that exists on very 
different scales, and to put data in context of their mean. 
 
Let's take our previous data on the number of friends on Facebook and standardize the data 
to the z-score. For each data point, we will find its z-score by applying the preceding 
formula. We will take everyone, subtract the average friends from the value, and divide that 
by the standard deviation, as shown z_scores = [] 
m = np.mean(friends)  # average friends on Facebook s = np.std(friends)   # 
standard deviation friends on Facebook for friend in friends: 
    z = (friend - m)/s  # z-score     z_scores.append(z)  # make a list of the scores for 
plotting 
Now, let's plot these z-scores on a bar chart. The following chart shows the same individuals 
from our previous example using friends on Facebook, but instead of the bar height 
revealing the raw number of friends, now each bar is the z-score of the number of friends 
they have on Facebook. If we graph the z-scores, we'll notice a few things: plt.bar(y_pos, 
z_scores)

• We have negative values (meaning that the data point is below the mean) 
• The bars' lengths no longer represent the raw number of friends, but the degree to 
which that friend count differs from the mean This chart makes it very easy to pick 
out the individuals with much lower and higher friends on an average. For example, 
the individual at index 0 has fewer friends on an average (they had 109 friends where 
the average was 789). 
• What if we want to graph the standard deviations? Recall that we earlier graphed 
three horizontal lines: one at the mean, one at the mean plus the standard deviation 
(), and one at the mean minus the standard deviation () 