The result is two columns, as shown, that exist on the same scale as each other even if they 
were not previously: 
 
Now, we can plot friends and happiness on the same scale and the graph will at least be 
readable. 
df_scaled.plot(kind='scatter', x = 'friends_scaled', y = 'happiness_ scaled') 

Now our data is standardized to the z-score and this scatter plot is easily interpretable! In 
later chapters, this idea of standardization will not only make our data more interpretable, 
but it will also be essential in our model optimization. Many machine learning algorithms will 
require us to have standardized columns as they are reliant on the notion of scale. 
The insightful part – correlations in data 
Throughout this book, we will discuss the difference between having data and having 
actionable insights about your data. Having data is only one step to a successful data science 
operation. Being able to obtain, clean, and plot data helps to tell the story that the data has 
to offer but cannot reveal the moral. To take this entire example one step further, we will 
look at the relationship between having friends on Facebook and happiness. 
In subsequent chapters, we will look at a specific machine learning algorithm that attempts 
to find relationships between quantitative features, called linear regression, but we do not 
have to wait until then to begin to form hypotheses. We have a sample of people, a measure 
of their online social presence and their reported happiness. The question of the day here 
is—can we find a relationship between the number of friends on Facebook and overall 
happiness? 

Now, obviously, this is a big question and should be treated respectfully. Experiments to 
answer this question should be conducted in a laboratory setting, but we can begin to form 
a hypothesis about this question. Given the nature of our data, we only have the following 
three options for a hypothesis: 

• There is a positive association between the number of online friends and happiness 
(as one goes up, so does the other) 
• There is a negative association between them (as the number of friends goes up, your 
happiness goes down) 
• There is no association between the variables (as one changes, the other doesn't really 
change that much) 