3.3 Types of Probability 

• Classical 
Also known as the axiomatic method, this type of probability involves a set of axioms (rules) 
attached to it. For example, you could have a rule that the probability must be greater than 
0.5% for it to be valid.  
• Relative Frequency 
This involves looking at the occurrence ratio of a singular event in comparison to the total 
number of outcomes. This type of probability is often used after data from an experiment has 
been gathered to compare a subset of data to the total amount of collected data.   
• Subjective Probability 
When using the subjective approach, probability is the likelihood of something happening 
based on one’s experiences or personal judgment. Here there are no formal calculations for 
subjective probability for it is based on one’s beliefs, judgment, and personal reasoning. By 
way of example, during a sporting event, fans of one team share who they are rooting for. 
This is based on facts or opinions they personally hold regarding the game, the two teams 
playing and the odds of the team winning. 

Probability Theory Examples 
Probability theory is a tool employed by researchers, businesses, investment analysts and 
countless others for risk management and scenario analysis.  
Epidemiology 
Take epidemiology, which is the science of disease distribution. Researchers in this field study 
disease frequency, assessing how the probability differs across groups of people. A present-
day example of this is the use of probability by epidemiologists to assess the cause-effect 
relationship between exposure and illness to the coronavirus. 
Probability theory is often used to unlock key factors denoting the relationship between 
exposures and health risks. The aim here is to quantify uncertainty. This knowledge can fuel a 
course of action based on best outcomes for those affected by various diseases.  
Insurance 
The actuaries who are often employed in the insurance industry make primary use of 
probability, statistics, and other data science tools to calculate the probability of uncertain 
future events occurring over a period. They then apply other data concepts to determine the 
amount of money that needs to be set aside to pay for future losses.  
Small Business 
Then there’s the small-business world where owners cannot always turn to their hunches and 
instincts to run a successful company. In today’s competitive business environment, 
probability analysis can provide entrepreneurs with key metrics pointing the way to the most 
profitable and productive paths. This analysis offers a controlled way to anticipate potential 
results.  

For example, if a business enterprise expects to receive between R500,000 and R750,000 in 
revenue each month, the graph will begin with R500,000 at the low end and R750,000 at the 
high end. For a typical probability distribution, the graph will resemble a bell curve, where the 
least likely outcomes fall nearer the extreme ends of the range and the most likely nearer to 
the midpoint of the extremes. 

Meteorology 
A weather forecast serves as another example of probability theory. The probability for 
precipitation or severe weather is tied to a specific geographic location. As a result, forecasting 
can be viewed as the combination of the chance of a weather occurrence and the coverage of 
that event. 
A probability forecast includes a numerical expression of uncertainty about the quantity or 
event being forecast.  Ideally, all elements (temperature, wind, precipitation, etc.) of a 
weather forecast would include information that accurately quantifies the inherent 
uncertainty. Surveys have consistently indicated that users desire information about 
uncertainty or confidence of weather forecasts. The widespread dissemination and effective 
communication of forecast uncertainty information is likely to yield substantial economic and 
social benefits, because users can make decisions that explicitly account for this uncertainty.”