The results of our A/B test 
We can quickly drum up some descriptive statistics. We can say that the website 
conversion rates for the two websites are as follows: 

• Conversion for website A:  
• Conversion for website B: 
 
Not much difference, but different, nonetheless. Even though B has the higher conversion 
rate, can we really say that the version B significantly converts better? Not yet. To test the 
statistical significance of such a result, a hypothesis test should be used. These tests will be 
covered in depth in the next chapter, where we will revisit this exact same example and 
finish it using the proper statistical test. 
Sampling data 
Remember how statistics are the result of measuring a sample of a population. Well, we 
should talk about two very common ways to decide who gets the honour of being in the 
sample that we measure. We will discuss the main type of sampling, called random sampling, 
which is the most common way to decide our sample sizes and our sample members. 
Probability sampling 
Probability sampling is a way of sampling from a population, in which every person has a 
known probability of being chosen but that number might be a different probability than 
another user. The simplest (and probably the most common) probability sampling method is 
random sampling. 

Random sampling 
Suppose that we are running an A/B test, and we need to figure out who will be in group A 
and who will be in group B. There are the following three suggestions from your data team: 
• Separate users based on location: Users on the west coast are placed in group A, 
while users on the east coast are placed in group B 
• Separate users based on the time of day they visit the site: Users who visit between 
7 p.m. and 4 a.m. get site A, while the rest are placed in group B 
• Make it completely random: Every new user has a 50/50 chance of being placed in 
either group 
 
The first two are valid options for choosing samples and are simple to implement, 
but they both have one fundamental flaw: they are both at risk of introducing a 
sampling bias. 