Chapter 4: Basic Statistics 
 
4.1 What are statistics? 

This might seem like an odd question to ask, but I am frequently surprised by the 
number of people who cannot answer this simple and yet powerful question: what 
are statistics? Statistics are the numbers you always see on the news and in the paper. 
Statistics are useful when trying to prove a point or trying to scare you, but what 
are they? 
To answer this question, we need to back up for a minute and talk about why we even 
measure them in the first place. The goal of this field is to try to explain and model the world 
around us. To do that, we must look at the population. We can define a population as the 
entire pool of subjects of an experiment or a model. Essentially, your population is who you 
care about. Who are you trying to talk about? If you are trying to test if smoking leads 
to heart disease, your population would be the smokers of the world. If you are trying to study 
teenage drinking problems, your population would be all teenagers. Now, consider that you want to ask a question about your 
population, for example, if your population is all your employees (assume that you have over 
1,000 employees), perhaps you want to know what percentage of them use illicit drugs. The 
question is called a parameter. 

We can define a parameter as a numerical measurement describing a characteristic of a 
population. 
example, if you ask all 1,000 employees and 100 of them are using drugs, the rate of drug use 
is 10%. The parameter here is 10%. However, let's get real, you probably can't ask every single 
employee whether they are using drugs. What if you have over 10,000 employees (about the 
seating capacity of Cameron basketball stadium at Duke University)? It would be very difficult 
to track everyone down to get your answer. When this happens, it's impossible to figure out 
this parameter. In this case, we can estimate the parameter. 
First, we will take a sample of the population. 

We can define a sample of a population as a subset (random not required) of the population. 
So, we are perhaps asking 200 of the 1,000 employees you have. Of these 200, suppose 26 
use drugs, making the drug use rate 13%. Here, 13% is not a parameter because we didn't get 
a chance to ask anyone. This 13% is an estimate of a parameter. Do you know what that's 
called? That's right, a statistic! We can define a statistic as a numerical measurement 
describing a characteristic of a sample of a population. A statistic is just an estimation of a 
parameter. It is a number that attempts to describe an entire population by describing a 
subset of that population. This is necessary because you can never hope to give a survey to 
every single teenager or to every single smoker in the world. That's what the field of statistics 
is all about— taking samples of populations and running tests on these samples. So, the next 
time you are given a statistic, just remember, that number only represents a sample of that 
population, not the entire pool of subjects. 