Example: 
import numpy as np x = np.array([3, 6, 8])  
# A vector of three elements  
Understanding Vectors: 
• Vectors store multiple dimensions of a single data point or observation. 
• Example: Average satisfaction ratings for different departments in a company can be 
represented as a vector. 
Practical Application: 
• Consider average satisfaction ratings for three departments: 57 (HR), 89 (Engineering), 
94 (Management). 
 
• This can be represented as a vector: satisfaction = np.array([57, 89, 94]). 
A matrix is a 2-dimensional representation of arrays of numbers. Matrices (plural) 
have two main characteristics that we need to be aware of. The dimension of the 
matrix, denoted as n x m (n by m), tells us that the matrix has n rows and m columns. 
Matrices are generally denoted using a capital, bold-faced letter, such as X. Consider 
the following example: 

This is a 3 x 2 (3 by 2) matrix because it has three rows and two columns. 
If a matrix has the same number of rows and columns, it is called a square matrix. 
Revisiting our previous example, let's say we have three offices in different locations, each 
with the same three departments: HR, engineering, and management. We could make three 
different vectors, each holding a different office's satisfaction scores, as shown: 
 
However, this method is not only inconvenient but also not feasible for large-scale 
applications. For instance, if there are 100 different offices, it would require maintaining 100 
separate one-dimensional arrays to store this data. A matrix can solve this issue effectively. 
In the matrix, each row can represent a different department, and each column can represent 
a different office, as illustrated: 
 
Now, let's strip away the labels, and we are left with a matrix: 
  
Introduction 
In data science, arithmetic symbols are used extensively for various calculations and data 
manipulations. Understanding these symbols is crucial for interpreting and creating 
mathematical expressions in data science contexts. 