Chapter 3:  Probability Theory and Distributions 

3.1 Introduction  
Probability theory or probability calculus is the branch of mathematics concerned with 
probability. Although there are several different probability interpretations, probability 
theory treats the concept in a rigorous mathematical manner by expressing it through a set 
of axioms. Typically, these axioms formalize probability in terms of a probability space, which 
assigns a measure taking values between 0 and 1, termed the probability measure, to a set of 
outcomes called the sample space. Any specified subset of the sample space is called an 
event. 
The modern mathematical theory of probability has its roots in attempts to analyze games of 
chance by Gerolamo Cardano in the sixteenth century, and by Pierre de Fermat and Blaise 
Pascal in the seventeenth century (for example the "problem of points"). Christiaan Huygens 
published a book on the subject in 1657.In the 19th century, what is considered the classical 
definition of probability was completed by Pierre Laplace. 
Initially, probability theory mainly considered discrete events, and its methods were mainly 
combinatorial. Eventually, analytical considerations compelled the incorporation of 
continuous variables into the theory. This culminated in modern probability theory, on 
foundations laid by Andrey Nikolaevich Kolmogorov. Kolmogorov combined the notion of 
sample space, introduced by Richard von Mises, and measure theory and presented his axiom 
system for probability theory in 1933. This became the mostly undisputed axiomatic basis for 
modern probability theory; but, alternatives exist, such as the adoption of finite rather than 
countable additivity. 

3.2 What is probability Theory?  

Probability theory is a branch of mathematics focusing on the analysis of random phenomena. 
It is an important skill for data scientists using data affected by chance. With randomness 
existing everywhere, the use of probability theory allows for the analysis of chance events. 
The aim is to determine the likelihood of an event occurring, often using a numerical scale of 
between 0 and 1, with the number “0” indicating impossibility and “1” indicating certainty. A 
classic example of this is a coin toss, where there can be two possible options: heads or tails. 
Here the possibility of flipping a head or a tail on a single toss is 50%. When conducting your 
own experiment, you may find that the outcomes can vary. But if you continue flipping the 
coin, the outcome grows closer to 50/50.

 