Let's go back to our Facebook example for a visualization and further explanation of this. Let's 
begin to calculate the standard deviation. So, we'll start calculating a few of them. Recall that 
the arithmetic mean of the data was just about 789, so, we'll use 789 as the mean. 
We start by taking the difference between each data value and the mean, squaring it, 
adding them all up, dividing it by one less than the number of values, and then taking its 
square root. This would look as follows: 

On the other hand, we can take the Python approach and do all this programmatically (which 
is usually preferred). 
np.std(friends) # == 425.2 
What the number 425 represents is the spread of data. You could say that 425 is a kind of 
average distance the data values are from the mean. What this means, in simple words, is 
that this data is pretty spread out. 

So, our standard deviation is about 425. This means that the number of friends that these 
people have on Facebook doesn't seem to be close to a single number and that's quite evident 
when we plot the data in a bar graph and graph the mean as well as the visualizations of the 
standard deviation. In the following plot, every person will be represented by a single bar in 
the bar chart, and the height of the bars represent the number of friends that the individuals 
have: 
import matplotlib.pyplot as plt 
%matplotlib inline y_pos = 
range(len(friends)) 
plt.bar(y_pos, friends) plt.plot((0, 25), (789, 789), 'b-') 
plt.plot((0, 25), (789+425, 789+425), 'g-') plt.plot((0, 25), 
(789-425, 789-425), 'r-') 
 
The blue line in the centre is drawn at the mean (789), the red line on the bottom is drawn 
at the mean minus the standard deviation (789-425 = 364), and, finally, the green line 
towards the top is drawn at the mean plus the standard deviation (789+425 = 1,214). 
Note how most of the data lives between the green and the red lines while the outliers live 
outside the lines. Namely, there are three people who have friend counts below the red line 
and three people who have a friend count above the green line. 
It's important to mention that the units for standard deviation are, in fact, the same units 
as the data's units. So, in this example, we would say that the standard deviation is 425 
friends on Facebook. 

So, now we know that the standard deviation and variance is good for checking how spread 
out our data is, and that we can use it along with the mean to create a kind of range that a 
lot of our data lies in. But what if we want to compare the spread of two different datasets, 
maybe even with completely different units? That's where the coefficient of variation 
comes into play. 