4.2 How do we obtain and sample data? 
If statistics is about taking samples of populations, it must be very important to know how we 
obtain these samples, and you'd be correct. Let's focus on just a few of the many ways of 
obtaining and sampling data.  
Obtaining data 
There are two main ways of collecting data for our analysis: observational and 
experimentation. Both these ways have their pros and cons, of course. They each produce 
different types of behavior and, therefore, warrant different types of analysis. 

Observational 
We might obtain data through observational means, which consists of measuring specific 
characteristics but not attempting to modify the subjects being studied. For example, you 
have a tracking software on your website that observes users' behavior on the website, such 
as length of time spent on certain pages and the rate of clicking on ads, all the while not 
affecting the user's experience, then that would be an observational study. 
This is one of the most common ways to get data because it's just plain easy. All you must do 
is observe and collect data. Observational studies are also limited in the types of data you 
may collect. This is because the observer (you) is not in control of the environment. You may 
only watch and collect natural behavior. If you are looking to induce a certain type of 
behavior, an observational study would not be useful. 
 
Experimental 
An experiment consists of a treatment and the observation of its effect on the subjects. 
Subjects in an experiment are called experimental units. This is usually how most scientific 
labs collect data. They will put people into two or more groups (usually just two) and call them 
the control and the experimental group. The control group is exposed to a certain 
environment and then observed. 

The experimental group is then exposed to a different environment and then observed. The 
experimenter then aggregates data from both the groups and decides about which 
environment was more favorable (favorable is a quality that the experimenter gets to decide). 
In a marketing example, consider that we expose half of our users to a certain landing page 
with certain images and a certain style (website A), and we measure Whether they sign up for 
the service. Then, we expose the other half to a different landing page, different images, and 
different styles (website B) and again Measure if they sign up. We can then decide which of 
the two sites performed better and should be used to going further. This, specifically, is called 
an A/B test. Let's see an example in Python! Let's suppose we run the preceding test and 
obtain the following results as a list of lists: 

results = [ ['A', 1], ['B', 1], ['A', 0], ['A', 0] …] 