3.4. Bayesian versus Frequentist 
 
The preceding example was almost too easy. In practice, we can hardly ever truly 
count the number of ways something can happen. For example, let's say that we 
want to know the probability of a random person smoking cigarettes at least once 
a day. If we wanted to approach this problem using the classical way (the previous 
formula), we would need to figure out how many ways a person is a 
smoker—someone who smokes at least once a day—which is not possible! 
When faced with such a problem, two main schools of thought are considered when 
it comes to calculating probabilities in practice: the Frequentist approach and the 
 
Bayesian approach. This chapter will focus heavily on the Frequentist approach 
 
while the subsequent chapter will dive into the Bayesian analysis (Curuksu, J. D. (2018).  
• Frequentist approach 
In a Frequentist approach, the probability of an event is calculated through 
experimentation. It uses the past to predict the future chance of an event. 
The basic formula is as follows: 
 
Basically, we observe several instances of the event and count the number of times A 
was satisfied. The division of these numbers approximates the probability. 
The Bayesian approach differs by dictating that probabilities must be discerned 
using theoretical means. Using the Bayes approach, we would have to think a bit 
more critically about events and why they occur. Neither methodology is 100% the 
correct answer all the time. Usually, it comes down to the problem and the difficulty 
of using either approach. 
The crux of the Frequentist approach is the relative frequency. 
The relative frequency of an event is how often an event occurs divided by the total 
number of observations. 

Example – marketing stats 
Let's say that you are interested in ascertaining how often a person who visits your 
website is likely to return on a later date. This is sometimes called the rate of repeat 
visitors. In the previous definition, we would define our A event as being a visitor 
coming back to the site. We would then have to calculate the number of ways a 
person can come back, which doesn't really make sense at all! In this case, many 
people would turn to a Bayesian approach; however, we can calculate what is known 
as relative frequency. 