Unequal probability sampling 
 
Recall that I previously said that a probability sampling might have different probabilities for 
different potential sample members. But what if this introduced problems? Suppose we are 
interested in measuring the happiness level of our employees. We already know that we can't 
ask every single person on the staff because that would be silly and exhausting. So, we need 
to take a sample. Our data team suggests random sampling and at first everyone high fives 
because they feel very smart and statistical. But then someone asks a seemingly harmless 
question— does anyone know the percentage of men/women who work here? 
The high fives stop, and the room goes silent. 

This question is extremely important because sex is likely to be a confounding factor. The 
team investigates it and discovers a split of 75% men and 25% women in the company. 
This means that if we introduce a random sample, our sample will likely have a similar split 
and, thus, Favor the results for men and not women. To combat this, we can Favor including 
more women than men in our survey to make the split of our sample less favoured for men. 
At first glance, introducing a favouring system in our random sampling seems like a bad idea, 
however, alleviating unequal sampling and, therefore, working to remove systematic bias 
among gender, race, disability, and so on is much more pertinent. A simple random sample, 
where everyone has the same chance as everyone else, is very likely to drown out the voices 
and opinions of minority population members. Therefore, it can be okay to introduce such 
a favouring system in your sampling techniques. 

4.3 How do we measure statistics? 
 
Once we have our sample, it's time to quantify our results. Suppose we wish to generalize 
the happiness of our employees, or we want to figure out whether salaries in the company 
are very different from person to person. 
Ways of measuring results: 

Measures of centre 

Measures of centre are how we define the middle, or centre, of a dataset. We do this 
because sometimes we wish to generalize about data values. For example, perhaps we're 
curious about what the average rainfall in Seattle is or what the median height for European 
males is. It's a way to generalize a large set of data so that it's easier to convey to someone. 
A measure of centre is a value in the "middle" of a dataset. 
However, this can mean different things to different people. Who's to say where the middle 
of a dataset is? There are so many ways of defining the centre of data. Let's look at a few. 
The arithmetic mean of a dataset is found by adding up all the values and then dividing it by 
the number of data values. 
