Can we use basic statistics to form a hypothesis about this question? I say we can! But first, 
we must introduce a concept called correlation. 
Correlation coefficients are a quantitative measure that describe the strength of 
association/relationship between two variables. 

The correlation between two sets of data tells us about how they move together. Would 
changing one help us predict the other? This concept is not only interesting in this case, but 
it is one of the core assumptions that many machine learning models make on data. For 
many prediction algorithms to work, they rely on the fact that there is some sort of 
relationship between the variables that we are looking at. The learning algorithms then 
exploit this relationship to make accurate predictions. 
A few things to note about a correlation coefficient are as follows: 
• It will lie between -1 and 1 
• The greater the absolute value (closer to -1 or 1), the stronger the relationship 
between the variables: 
                      °  The strongest correlation is a -1 or a 1 
                      °  The weakest correlation is a 0 
• A positive correlation means that as one variable increases, the other one tends to 
increase as well. 
• A negative correlation means that as one variable increases, the other one tends to 
decrease. 
We can use Pandas to quickly show us correlation coefficients between every feature and 
every other feature in the Data frame, as illustrated: 

# correlation between variables df.corr() 
This table shows the correlation between friends and happiness. Note the first two things, 
shown as follows: 
• The diagonal of the matrix is filled with positive is. This is because they represent the 
correlation between the variable and itself, which, of course, forms a perfect line, 
making the correlation perfectly positive! 
• The matrix is symmetrical across the diagonal. This is true for any correlation matrix 
made in Pandas. 

There are a few caveats to trusting the correlation coefficient. One is that, in 
general, a correlation will attempt to measure a linear relationship between 
variables. This means that if there is no visible correlation revealed by this measure, 
it does not mean that there is no relationship between the variables, only that there 
is no line of best fit that goes through the lines easily. There might be a non-linear 
relationship that defines the two variables. 
It is important to realize that causation is not implied by correlation. Just because 
there is a weak negative correlation between these two variables does not 
necessarily mean that your overall happiness decreases as the number of friends you 
keep on Facebook goes up. This causation must be tested further, and, in later 
chapters, we will attempt to do just that. 
To sum up, we can use correlation to make hypotheses about the relationship 
between variables, but we will need to use more sophisticated statistical methods 
and machine learning algorithms to solidify these assumptions and hypotheses. 