Two Categories of Unstructured Data 

Unstructured data consists of two basic categories: 
Bitmap Objects: Inherently non-language based, such as image, video or audio files. 
Textual Objects: Based on a written or printed language, such as Microsoft Word documents, 
e-mails or Microsoft Excel spreadsheets. 
Both object types may be classified as data, but the technology and methodology for 
harnessing relevant information from bitmap objects is still in its infancy. Most of today's 
technology addresses textual objects. Enterprise content management (ECM) technologies, 
for example, can help contain unstructured data. Textual data mining and analysis vendors 
provide analysis tools for unstructured textual objects, and business intelligence vendors 
supply solutions for querying and analysing structured data. However, bringing them together 
- querying both the unstructured and structured worlds - and then associating these two 
worlds at relevant points is where the most value is gained and where the highest level of 
challenge is presented. 
Comparing these categories with structured data raises three distinct challenges: 
Even if unstructured data is in a format such as a Microsoft Word template, the data is still 
not consumable from a semantic level without a compatible interface or application. 
Even with a compatible technology, we cannot necessarily gain insight into the context of the 
information unless we can read it. 
And lastly, the way we interpret what we read is largely subjective. 
Why do we care about the “Mountains” of Unstructured Data? 
IDC (International Data Corporation) estimates the volume of digital data will grow 40% to 
50% per year. By 2020, IDC predicts the number will have reached 40,000 EB, or 40 Zettabytes 
(ZB). The world’s information is doubling every two years. By 2020 the world will generate 50 
times the amount of information and 75 times the number of information containers. 
The massive growth of unstructured or semi-structured data is amazing and has implications 
for data warehouse / business intelligence / data analytics architecture and database design. 
The way we capture, store, analyse, and distribute data is transforming. New technologies 
like deduplication, compression, and analysis tools are lowering costs.  
The Internet of Things (equipping all objects in the world with identifying devices), blogs, 
videos, social media, emails, notes from call centres, and all forms of human and computer to 
computer communications will soon start to produce massive amounts of unstructured or 
semi-structured data. 