Choosing a Platform 

Should you develop for Android or iOS? Or both? There are advantages and disadvantages to all three 
options. You will have to consider your app audience, market size, how committed you are to making 
a successful app, and what your goals are in publishing an app. Each of these three options will be 
considered in this section. 

Android has the biggest market share in terms of devices sold. Therefore, it also has the biggest 
potential for app sales. However, much of the market growth is outside the United States. Your app 
would have to have universal appeal to take advantage of the growth. A second problem with the 
Android smartphone market is that although the market is big, many of the owners of these phones 
use them primarily as “dumb phones.” They are not a likely market for your app. Finally, Android app 
users are much less willing to pay for an app than their iPhone compatriots are. Studies have shown 
that each iOS user spends about twice as much on apps as an Android user. On the other hand, some 
industry segments you might target may have a tendency to use Android devices at a much greater 
rate than iOS devices. In particular, small businesses, such as the fence builder industry discussed in 
Chapter, “Why Mobile Apps?,” are primarily Android users, and the potential to develop apps for these 

industries is very large. Similarly, some developing markets like China have a much larger Android 
market share (79%) compared to the United States (44%). 
Android has an advantage in that the barrier to entry is lower for the casual developer than it is for 
iOS. The fee to be a developer is a one-time fee, and all the tools are free. You can develop Android 
apps on either Windows or Mac computers. Finally, publishing an app is relatively easy. If you want to 
publish apps for fun, for bragging rights, or to demonstrate your credentials as a developer, Android 
is a good choice. 

Although the iOS market is smaller than the Android market, people get iPhones because they want 
to use the apps. They are much more likely to look for apps to use, and iPhone users are also much 
more willing to pay for an app. This makes selling an app using the simple paid approach, as well as 
the in-app purchase approach discussed earlier, much more feasible. Whereas Android has a higher 
market share overall, iOS has about 79% market share in the enterprise market, and several large 
providers like IBM, SAP, and Cisco Systems have made significant investments in enterprise apps for 
iOS. On the other hand, Apple charges a higher annual fee to be a developer; the publishing process 
is more complicated and is in no way guaranteed. Finally, you must have a Mac to use Xcode to create 
your app. You cannot create an iOS app on a Windows machine. 

Why not publish on both? If you are trying to make money from apps, this is probably the way to go. 
You get access to a larger market and thus more potential revenue generation. In addition, after 
you’ve gone through the effort of designing a user experience, user interface, and logic to create an 
app for one platform, you can leverage that effort by creating an app for the other environment. You 
will have to completely recode the app, but coding is much easier if you already know what you want 
the app to do. Also, many of the control structures are almost identical on the two platforms (e.g., a 
for loop), so much of the code structure can be copied directly between the code files. You will have 
to learn both development environments in depth, but you’ve got a good start from what you have 
learned by completing this book. The primary problem with targeting both markets is that you will 
have to keep your app current on both platforms. This means more work just to keep the lights on. 