Even vertical scrolling should be limited. Lists are obvious choices for vertical 
scrolling, but other types of interface elements should be limited. In addition, when scrolling, you must 
also fix certain elements so that the user can perform needed operations without scrolling back 
through the entire contents of the screen. 

The obvious answer to the limited screen size is to carefully plan the user’s interaction with your app. 
Screens should focus on one, or a very limited and coherent, set of tasks that the user can or would 
want to do. Navigation should be planned and designed so that it is obvious to the user how to proceed 
to the next task. If a task requires multiple steps, those steps should be designed as distinct screens, 
and the user should be guided through the screens needed to complete the whole task. 
Although screen size is a nontrivial design issue, the fact that by default a screen’s orientation can 
change as the user turns the device also presents design issues. When the user turns the device from 
vertical to horizontal orientation, the layout or view reorganizes to that orientation. 

This significantly changes the amount of vertical and horizontal real estate for your interface. 
Interface elements that were obvious to the user in the vertical orientation may become inaccessible in the horizontal 
orientation. Again, this can be a very frustrating experience for your user, unless you carefully plan for 
the layout in both orientations and thoroughly test it as well. Scrolling can be implemented to alleviate 
some of the problems associated with orientation change. However, simply adding scrolling may not 
solve the user experience issues. If you cannot make it work in an alternative orientation, as a last 
resort you can code the app to work in only one orientation. The solutions to these screen size and orientation 
issues are planning and design. What does the user 
want to do with your app? What can your user do with your app? What are the logical steps needed 
to accomplish those tasks, given the device limitations? These are the types of questions you must 
answer to design a successful app.