7.3 Ad Supported Apps 
The app market is very price sensitive. Free apps get downloaded at a much greater rate than any paid 
app. However, it’s hard to make money with a totally free app. That is why, although many apps 
appear to be free, they often have a way to make money built into the app. The most common 
approach to making money from a free app is to embed ads within the app screens. Ads take up screen 
real estate, so you will have to plan and code the user interface with this in mind. 
While there are several different companies that provide the ability to embed ads in your apps, AdMob 
from Google is well integrated with Android and therefore probably the easiest for the beginner. 
AdMob is included in Firebase. Firebase is a collection of backend development tools. Once you 
become adept at developing, learning more on how to use the tools provided in Firebase to enhance 
your app would be a good idea. Because setting up for supporting ads in your app mostly involves 
registering for the ads with either Google or Apple, as well as submitting bank account information 
(so you can be paid) and a W-9 tax form (so you can pay taxes on your ad revenue), it isn’t feasible to 
have a tutorial in this chapter on setting up ads. Instead, here are the basic steps you need to follow 
to embed ads in an Android app, after you have properly registered for AdMob with Google: 

1. Open the Firebase assistant by clicking Tools > Firebase. 
2. Find AdMob in the list of services and click Add a banner to your app. 
3. Follow the instructions carefully. 
You can also use AdMob in an iOS app, either directly using the SDK or with Firebase 
(https://firebase.google.com/docs/admob/ios/quick-start).

Download the SDK from 

https://developers.google.com/mobile-ads-sdk/download#downloadios. The process to add an ad to 
an iOS project is a bit lengthy to discuss here, but in essence you add the AdSupport Framework from 
the unzipped download file to your project and then add the ad view where needed to your xib files. 
A complete description of the process is located at https://developers.google.com/mobile-ads- 
sdk/docs. 

To use AdMob to make money from ads on your app, as well as test the ads, you need to sign up with 
AdMob (http://www.google.com/ads/admob). Ads generate money  for you only when they are 
clicked. Each click generates only a few cents, so you need a lot of clicks to make any real income. For 
example, we have a free card game on Android that is ad supported. It has been downloaded by nearly 
a thousand people. The money it generates is measured in dollars per month. In contrast, we have an 
app that costs $1.99. It gets only a couple of downloads per month but generates as much money as 
the more frequently downloaded and ad-supported app.