In-App Purchases 

Making enough money from ad-supported apps to support a business is difficult. You need a very 
popular app to generate a significant amount of money. Another approach for monetization is to 
release a free app that is supported by in-app purchases. The basic theory for an in-app purchase 
monetization strategy is that you generate downloads with the free app, get the users hooked, and 
then allow them to add features by advertising the feature in the app. The sale is made during use of 
the app. This is a very popular approach among app developers. In fact, in 2019, 50% of app developers 
reported using in-app purchases as a monetization strategy according to App Annie. Another 
advantage over the basic paid app is that in-app purchasing opens up the possibility of a regular 
revenue stream from the same user, instead of relying on a single purchase up front. 
In-app purchasing is one way to establish a freemium business model, where most of your users use 
the free version, but a small percentage becomes heavily invested in your app and service and convert 
to paying for the service, thus underwriting the free experience for everyone else. 
You can use several approaches to create products for in-app purchase. Most are dependent on the 
type of app and its designed use. Game apps often limit the user to only a few game levels and then 
provide an in-app purchase option for moving to the next level. Other games have consumables that 
can be purchased during game use. For example, a number of lives are purchased and used up. If users 
want to continue playing, they have to buy more. Other apps include features that can be unlocked 
with an in-app purchase. For example, an app may have a mapping feature, such as in the 
MyContactList app. The button opens the map screen, but rather than displaying the contact, it 
presents the user with a message that the feature needs to be purchased before the contacts will be 
displayed. Another approach is to limit the amount of data that can be saved or the number of times 
the app can be used before the user needs to pay for it. Finally, if your app includes access to content, 
that content could be purchased on a subscription basis. For example, services that provide weather 
information cost the developer money, depending on the number of times the weather service is 
accessed. If the user wants that information in the app, the developer could charge a subscription fee 
to cover the cost and generate revenue for themselves. Often an in-app purchase strategy is combined 
with an ad-supported strategy. The free version includes ads that are eliminated as a bonus for an in- 
app purchase. 

To implement in-app purchases in Android, you have to get the Google Play Billing Library from the 
Android SDK Manager. It is found in the extras folder in the SDK Manager. Import the 
IInAppBillingService.aidl file into the src folder of your project. Also, import the files in the util folder 
of the example app included in the library. Complete information on implementing in-app purchases 
in Android is available at http://developer.android.com/google/play/billing/index.html. 
 
Implementing in-app purchases in iOS is easier, because all you have to do to get the code is add the 
StoreKit framework to your project. Products that can be purchased in the app are set up in iTunes 
Connect and then made available in the app. The complete process is too detailed to cover here, but 
complete information is available at https://developer.apple.com/library/content/documentation/NetworkingInternet/Conceptual/Store  
KitGuide/Introduction.html. 