▪ Lines 7–9—This statement determines if the user had previously denied 
a request from the app to access the device’s location. If it has previously been denied, the app presents 
the user with a rationale informing them why the app needs this permission. The 
first time the app requests a permission, a “canned” 
▪ Lines 11–25—This code asks for permission to access location if it was previously denied. It will 
only show the permission request if the user previously denied this specific permission. The request 
for location is made with a Snackbar. A Snackbar is an object that implements a kind of AlertDialog 
that is run as an asynchronous task floating in the activity’s layout. 
The findViewById(R.id.activity_contact_map) may be underlined in red. If so, you need to add an id to the 
root layout of activity_contact_map.xml. Open the map’s layout file and switch to Text view. Add the 
following line after the android:layout_height line: android:id="@+id/activity_contact_map". The 
user can go on using the activity; however, the Snackbar will obstruct some of the layout. The 
LENGTH_INDEFINITE code keeps the Snackbar open until the user explicitly dismisses it by clicking 
either the OK or Deny buttons. Finally, the code creates an OnClick listener for the OK button click 
event. 

▪ Lines 18–22—This code requests permission for access to location. Note that it only asks for 
permission to access fine location. If this permission is granted, coarse location is also automatically 
granted. The PERMISSION_REQUEST_LOCATION will be highlighted in red. This will also be fixed later. 
▪ Lines 28–30—This code is the same as described previously in Lines 3–5. It is executed if the user 
has not previously denied access to location. 

Now we will fix the PERMISSION_REQUEST_LOCATION issue. Open ContactMapActivity.java (if not 
open) and put the following line of code after the LocationListener gpsListener line at the top of the 
file: 
 
final int PERMISSION_REQUEST_LOCATION = 101; 

This line declares a constant that is used to identify the permission that is being 
requested. Note that the code in Listing 7.6 includes this value each time it requests 
location permission. This is done because the user’s response to any permission 
request is handled by the same method, and we  may ask for more than one 
permission in an activity. That method must be able to identify what permission 
request it is responding to in order to act appropriately. The next step is to code 
the method required to respond to the user’s response. Enter the code in Listing 7.7 after 
the startLocationUpdates() method. 
This code is called when the user clicks one of the buttons on the permission request dialog. It is called 
by a response to a request for any permission. 

▪ Lines 2–3—This is the method signature required to override the super class method of the same 
name. The request response sends the requestCode, which is the value you sent the request with 
PERMISSION_REQUEST_LOCATION. It is used to determine with which permission request it is dealing. 
The response also sends a string array with the permissions requested and an integer array with the 
user response to each request. 
▪ Lines 5–6—A switch statement is used to determine to which permission the method is 
responding. In our activity, we only have one permission request, so there is only one case statement. 
This method can be used to deal with multiple permission requests by simply adding additional case 
statements. 
▪ Lines 7–8—This if statement uses PackageManager to check if the permission was granted by the 
user. PackageManager is an operating system object that keeps track of what permissions were  
granted by the user for the apps on the device. If the permission was granted, the app starts finding 
the location. If it is not granted, a message is displayed explaining how the app will function without 
the permission. 