The Minimum API Level dropdown allows you to select the oldest version of Android on which your  
app will be able to run. A suggested minimum Android SDK is displayed. SDK stands for Software 
Development Kit, and it is a set of tools and code libraries used to write software for a specific 
platform. Each release of the Android OS is associated with an SDK so that programmers can write 
code for that platform. An application programming interface (API) is a set of routines that allow a 
program (app) to access the resources of the operating system to provide functionality to the user. 
The minimum required SDK determines what phones and other Android devices will be able to install 
your app. (Phones and tablets using Android operating systems earlier than this selection will not even 
see your app in the Play Store.) This selection will also determine the features you can program into 
your app. 

The recommended minimum is the default: IceCreamSandwich API 15. An app that has this 
minimum will be accessible to 100% of the devices “in the wild.” This means that devices 
running the minimum up to the current version. Leave This project will support instant 
apps unchecked. Instant apps allow potential users to try your app from the Play Store 
without installing it on the device. Instant apps requires API 21 or higher, so by choosing API 15 
we cannot use them. Use androidx.*artifacts is checked and not changeable. (Note: This may 
be unchecked and changeable, depending on your configuration of Android Studio, installed libraries, and SDKs.) Androidx artifacts are support 
libraries that replace the current Support Library used in Android development to make the app 
backward compatible to API levels earlier than the most recent (API 28 at the time of this writing). 
Click Finish, and your project will load and be ready to work on. Android Studio will create the 
project (this may take some time). When finished, you should see something like 
Figure 3.2. You may have to click on the Project tab on the left side of Android Studio and drill 
down into the app folder and double-click on the MainActivity.