The testing just described may initially be performed on the Android emulator or the iOS simulator, 
but it should also be performed on an actual device. This is especially true for apps that access the 
hardware features of the device. Apps that use location or other sensors cannot be adequately tested 
in either the Android emulator or the iOS simulator. 

After all the unit tests have been passed successfully, the app should be tested for usability. The ability 
to provide help and/or training in the use of your app is extremely limited. Users should be able to 
figure out how to use it with relative ease. This requires testing by someone unfamiliar with the app. 
Developers have a relatively difficult time testing this themselves because they are too familiar with 
the way the app should work. Both Google and Apple provide extensive guidelines for human- 
computer-interaction (HCI) design that you should study and follow to help ensure that the app is easy 
to use. 

The final set of tests requires access to a variety of devices. Because of the large number of 
manufacturers that provide Android devices, this is a much more difficult problem in Android than in 
iOS. For Android, you should have at least one device that runs the minimum SDK and one that runs 
the target SDK. You also should have one device for each screen size supported by your app. (You can 
limit screen size in the manifest like you did for minimum and target SDK.) This set of devices should 
be considered the minimum number required. If possible, you should also test devices from different 
manufacturers. There are differences, and these can cause interesting problems. There are companies 
that for a fee will help test your app on a range of different devices. However, you can also use market 
share data about what devices and OS versions are most prevalent in the market you are targeting. 
For example, if your app would not be relevant to users outside of your own country, you can focus 
your efforts on the devices that are actually in use in your country. 

8.5 Keeping Up with the Platform 

Both Apple and Google make changes to their respective operating systems on a regular basis. This 
can be challenging for developers with apps “in the wild.” Updates to the operating system can and, 
although infrequently, do disrupt apps that previously ran fine. To avoid problems with users of your 
app or to prevent getting bad reviews in the app stores, it pays to keep on top of platform changes. 
Keeping up with changes to the OS is not rocket science, but it does require diligence. At a minimum, 
as soon as the new OS is released, you should recompile your app to include the new version as a 
target. 

Correct any errors that occur when you do this until you get a new version that can be tested 
on the emulator or simulator. Once it is running well there, run it on an actual device with the updated 
OS installed and run through your complete test plan to ensure that it works on that device. Finally, 
test the new version of your app on a device running an older version of the OS. When you are satisfied 
that your app works, release an upgrade to the app through the appropriate app store. 
Beyond the bare minimum previously outlined, as a registered developer you also have access to 
prerelease software so you can test your app in advance of the general release to the public. For 
instance, Apple typically releases the first beta version of a new version of iOS and Xcode at its WWDC 
conference in June, several months before the public release in September. Because most iOS users 
update their devices very quickly after the public release, it is very important that you have tested 
your app thoroughly before the release.

Why Did That Happen? (Part 1) 
One of our Android apps uses a standard list similar to what you have seen in Chapter, “Lists in 
Android: Navigation and Information Display.” The app worked fine. Then we started getting 
complaints from users who had a new phone from a specific manufacturer. The manufacturer had 
made some changes that required a specific attribute value in the ListItem to display properly. 
Although this change couldn’t have been foreseen by us, it does illustrate the need to test on multiple 
devices.
 
The iOS world has a much more limited set of devices, and the platform is more standardized between 
devices. However, Apple has continued to increase the variability of hardware specs across its lineup, 
so it is increasingly important to test on as many devices as possible. For example, if your app supports 
3D Touch, you need to make sure to test on devices that support this technology and devices that 
don’t.