6.5 Using the Phone 

An Android device not only provides hardware devices that can be used in an app to collect 
information on the device’s internal and external environment, but it also includes hardware 
capabilities that can be accessed to provide certain functionality for an app. To access data from a 
sensor, the app listens for a broadcast from a sensor. However, other hardware on an Android device 
operates only when the user or an app wants to use it. In these cases, the functionality provided by 
the hardware is accessed by calling the API associated with the hardware. One such piece of hardware 
provided by some devices is a telephone. In the MyContactList app, you will code the MainActivity so 
that pressing and holding one of the contact’s phone numbers will automatically call that number. 
This functionality requires accessing the phone’s API and asking it to call the number provided. 
Accessing the phone functionality of an Android device requires user permission. Add the following 
line with the other permissions already in the AndroidManifest.xml file:

<uses-permission android:name="android.permission.CALL_PHONE"/> 
 
Using the phone is considered a dangerous permission, so we will also have to ask for permission to 
do it to make the app compatible with the newer versions of the Android OS. 
The next step is to add a listener to the phone number EditTexts for the press-and-hold user action. 
This is done by adding a method to the MainActivity.java file. Since we have to check permission, this 
method will call a method to check the permission. Use the code in Listing 8.6. Be sure to add the call 
to this activity in the onCreate method. 

Android versus iOS: Creating a Compass 
As you have seen in the preceding section, creating a compass in Android requires accessing two 
sensors and manipulating the data they provide. In contrast, the device’s heading is included in the 
Core Location framework on iOS. Heading is reported as a function of the device’s location, making 
creating a compass in iOS significantly easier than in Android. 
 
The pattern in this method should be very familiar by now. A reference to the widget is created, and 
an event is added to the widget. Next, the widget’s response to the event is coded. In this case, that 
is a call to another method to check if the app has permission to use the phone. Add the 
checkPhonePermission method using Listing 8.7. 