An app is published through the Developer Console (https://play.google.com/apps/publish). To 
publish apps, you need to sign up as a Google developer. The cost is a one-time fee of $25, which must 
be paid from a Google Wallet account. If you are going to sell your apps, you will need this account for 
payments. The account can be set up through the console. After you have set up all your accounts, 
you are ready to publish! 

After setup, the Developer Console displays all the apps you have published. To start, click the + Add 
New Application button at the top of the screen. You will be prompted to choose the default language 
and title of your app. Then you can choose to either Upload APK or Prepare Store Listing. It doesn’t 
matter which one you do first. You have to do both eventually. 
The left side of the console has a menu with five choices: APK, Store Listing, Pricing & Distribution, In- 
App Products, and Services & APIs. You have to complete the first three to publish your app. The steps 
in each are fairly self-explanatory but very detailed, so we will not explain them line by line. The APK 
menu item is where you upload your app APK. You can upload it for production, or for alpha or beta 
testing. 

Alpha testing is usually done by your developers, and beta testing is performed by real users 
after the alpha test. To use either of these features you have to set up a Google Group or Google+ 
Community. If you upload for testing, it will not be available to the public, but you, your developers, 
or selected users can test its performance as a user would experience it. The Store Listing menu item 
is where you provide product details, such as its description and screenshots. You must also categorize 
the app and provide contact details for you or your company. Finally, in the Pricing and Distribution 
area, you provide the price for the app and specify the countries where you want to sell it. 
When you’ve completed all three of these items, a green check mark will appear next to each one. 
You can publish it using the button at the top right of the console. The publishing process takes a few 
hours before your app appears in the Play Store. Congratulations! You are now in the Android 
business. 