The final step is to modify the onPause() method so that locationManager.removeUpdates line no 
longer creates an error. This is easy! Simply copy the code you put at the beginning of 
startLocationUpdates() method (Listing 7.5) and paste it before the try in the onPause() method. You 
are now ready to test finding locations. 

Run the code on the emulator and press the Get Coordinates button. You should see the permission 
request to allow My Contact List to access the device’s location (Figure 7.4). If you click Deny, you will 
see the Toast message that the app will not be able to locate your contacts. If you click the Get 
Coordinates button again, you will see the Snackbar message that the app requires the permission to 
locate contacts. When you click OK, you will get back to the permission dialog where you can turn the 
permission on to access the location functionality.

1. Click the Ellipsis button next to the emulator. 
2. Make sure the Location tab is selected. 
3. Enter a new latitude and/or longitude value and click the Send button. These values should show 
up in your app. 

To test the code on a device that has a GPS, terminate the app running on the emulator (Run > 
Terminate) and plug an Android device into the computer. (Note that the first four steps below were 
done in previous Chapter. If you did not change anything, you should be able to jump to Step 5.) 
1. From the main menu, select Run > Edit Configurations. The Run Configurations window is 
displayed. 
2. Click the disclosure button to the left of Android Application on the left side of the screen. Then 
click app. 
3. Find Deployment Target Options on the right side of the screen and verify that Show Device 
o select it from the list.) 
4. Click OK. Now when you run or debug your app, a device chooser (Figure 7.6) will display all your 
AVDs and real devices connected to the computer. You can then choose which one you want to 
test on. 
5. Your device must be set up to Allow USB Debugging before you can test the app. The location 
where you can turn this on varies widely among devices. It is usually in the Settings app under 
USB Settings or Developer Options. This will usually also require the device to be in developer 
mode, which is also done differently on different devices. You may have to do some internet 
searches to determine how to change the settings for your device. 
6. Make sure the device is connected to the computer and is unlocked. Select Choose a running 
device and then select your device. Click OK. The app will be loaded like on the emulator and 
begin running when finished. Note that if your device goes to sleep during this process, the app 
will be terminated. After the app is running on your device, you can unplug it so that you can walk 
around and see the location change. If you are indoors, it may take some time to 
get a GPS reading. In some buildings it will not work at all, so you will have to go 
outside. Get Coordinates from the Network Sensor declaration in ContactMapActivity.java: 
 
LocationListener networkListener;