In addition to these capabilities not present in other computing platforms, mobile devices have most 
of the same features, such as being able to display and manipulate data. Some of these features have 
enhanced usability because they are on a device that is easily moved. One example of this is the 
camera. Although many laptops and desktops have cameras built in, their usefulness is limited 
because they cannot be moved easily or easily pointed in specific directions, making mobile device 
cameras useful for both taking pictures as well as scanning bar codes and QR codes. While data input 
may at first seem limited due to the diminutive size of the keyboard, a mobile device offers software 
keyboards that can easily be switched to offer different character sets, which can be useful for 
international applications as well as for inputting business-specific symbols. 

The availability of high-quality microphones allows a user to use speech to enter data or to instruct 
the device to perform some operation. Again, these features may be more useful because data can be entered at its source 
when it is produced, rather than after the fact when human memory errors can affect the integrity of 
the data. Another similarity is that mobile devices also have the capability to store data in a number 
of formats, including in relational databases. Finally, mobile devices are also computers. 
When equipped with enabling applications, mobile devices, with their built-in screen readers, cameras, 
and internet connectivity, comprise a technology bundle that affords blind people new and powerful 
ways to interact with visual aspects of their environment. For example, the K-NFB Reader app, 
developed collaboratively by Ray Kurzweil and the National Federation of the Blind, allows blind users 
to snap pictures of printed text on any nearby surface and hear that text read aloud. 

Leveraging pattern recognition software and the image-processing technology built in the device, blind users can read 
menus, browse classroom handouts, read instructions, watch PowerPoint presentations, and perform 
other tasks that could be daunting or impossible absent the technology. AppleVis.com, a community-
powered weblog dedicated to blind and low-vision users of Apple products, has catalogued more 
than 130 commercially available apps developed specifically for the visually impaired. The purpose 
of these apps is to assist people with disabilities doing everyday tasks and increase their 
independence in their daily life. 