Reaching Customers 
Smartphone users almost always have their device within reach. Organizations want to be ready when 
a potential customer is interested in a product or service. If customers have to wait until they get 
home to their computers or, worse yet, go to an actual store to get information about or purchase 
their product, it may be too late. Individuals may forget about what they wanted, or a competitor’s 
product may be available and then the sale is permanently lost. In addition, the smartphone adoption 
rate and sales have greatly outpaced PC sales in recent years. In many homes, smartphones may be 
the only way to access the internet. Many consumers are choosing tablets instead of PCs, rather than 
in addition to PCs. In fact, tablet sales surpassed PC sales in 2016. Companies that provide their service 
over the internet may be left behind in these situations if they do not have a mobile strategy. 
In many cases, a website designed to be mobile friendly may be enough to hold or attract the 
customer. However, to truly tie your organization to the customer, an app is required. Many 
organizations are pursuing both approaches. 

Apps can provide a stronger link to your organization 
because static data and the basic interface are always available on the device, reducing the amount 
of data that needs to be transferred and providing quicker access than having to always download this 
information. An app also can provide some functionality, even when the device cannot connect to the 
internet. In these situations, customers could make a purchase when they get the urge, and the 
transaction could be uploaded when the device gets a data connection. Having the app always 
available on the device may also lead to your organization being one of the first choices when the 
consumer is in the buying mood. Additionally, the app’s consistent interface may help the individual 
learn it so that working with your organization becomes quicker and easier than working with others.