Apps make money for their producer via several approaches. They can be sold for a one-time fee, like 
12 other products. Consumers buy the app through the appropriate store, and it is theirs for use 
whenever they like. The more apps the developers sell, the more money they make. Ad-supported 
apps make money by including an advertisement on a small portion of the screen. Anytime a user 
clicks an ad, the developer makes money. Both Google and Apple provide developers access to the 
code to display ads and a service to provide the ads and track the clicks. In contrast to a paid app, the 
only time the developer gets paid is if an ad is clicked. (Apple’s ad service also pays per view of the ad, 
but the amount is significantly less than a click.) 

The amount of money generated by a single click is 
very small, so to make significant money, it is important to get a lot of users of the app. A third 
approach to making money is to provide for in-app purchases. With this model, the user gets the app 
for free but needs to make a purchase to get additional features. For example, a developer might 
provide a game for free but require a purchase for more advanced levels of the game. Another 
approach is subscription based. The app provides functionality that requires access to the developer’s 
data or other services. To use the service, users buy a monthly or annual subscription. 

The combination of device capabilities, an accessible market, and a diverse and large number of 
developers makes the app market exciting and innovative. Because the market for consumer apps 
puts a significant focus on free or low-cost apps, the challenge for a developer is to create a product 
that appeals to a lot of people. Fortunately, the capabilities of the mobile computing platform enable 
the implementation of apps that can do things in a variety of domains that could never be done before. 
Chapter, “Monetizing Apps,” provides a more in-depth discussion of how to make money from the 
apps you have created. 