Each is associated with images of a different size to match the 
size recommendations for different screen resolutions. Android uses PNG files 
(portable network graphics) for its images. The drawable folder can also contain XML files 
that use XML to create images. The drawable will have two XML files in it: one to describe how to display 
the background of the launch image (i.e., the icon the user taps to run your app) and the other for the 
foreground of the image. 

Next, expand the mipmap folder by clicking the disclosure button. The mipmap folder holds your app’s 
launch and screen icon. You should see two folders for the two different types of launch icons (Figure 
3.4). Each will have a (6) after it, indicating there are six items with the same name in it. Expand one 
of these folders and you will find six PNG files with the same name but a different resolution noted 
after the name. These are the differently sized icons for different screen sizes. The icon in this folder 
is currently the default app icon. You may change this by deleting the existing PNG files and adding 
your own. When your app is installed on a device, Android automatically uses the image appropriate 
for the device it is installed on by selecting it from the correct folder. 
  
Next, examine the layout folder. This folder holds all the layouts for the user interface of your app. 
There is one file in the folder for the MainActivity that was created when your project was created. 
The final set of folders is that of the values folders. Click the disclosure button to the left of the values 
folder. Three XML files will be displayed: colors.xml, strings.xml, and styles.xml. Other values files may 
be added later (see below). The values files hold configuration data for an Android app. Android uses 
this information to limit the hard coding of potentially changeable data. For example, the dimens.xml 
file could hold a value for screen title size that could be reused on each layout in the app. 