Owning Your Own Business 
If you are going to sell apps, you should have a business. This is not an absolute requirement. The Play 
and App Stores will let you sell apps as an individual. However, it is good practice to sell as a business 
because you can cleanly separate your individual life, income, and assets from your business income 
and assets. This is important for both tax and liability purposes. The vehicle for setting up your own 
business is in most cases a limited liability corporation, or LLC. 
 
Create an LLC 
An LLC is a legal entity that is organized by registering the business with a state. The process should 
take no more than an hour or so and cost under $200. The basic process is as follows: 

1. Establish the business name. Some form of limited liability corporation, or LLC, should be in the 
name. Check your proposed name against the database of names maintained by your state to 
make sure it has not been used. 
2. Download the Articles of Organization form from your state and fill it out. 
3. Identify a registered agent. This is the individual who will receive legal documents for the 
business. It can be you. 
4. Create an operating agreement that details the financial and management responsibilities of 
the members of the LLC (owners are called members). This is not required by every state but is 
good practice. 
5. File the forms with your state and pay the registration fee. 
That’s it. You now own a business! The LLC shields your personal assets in the event that your app 
causes a problem for which you get sued. If you are found liable, you can lose your business assets but 
not your personal assets. An LLC is also useful for tax purposes. The expenses you have incurred during 
app development, distribution, and marketing can be subtracted from the revenue you receive. The 
final number, whether it is positive or negative, is then transferred to your personal income taxes. If 
the number is positive, you will pay taxes through your personal income. If the number is negative, it 
reduces the amount of personal income taxes you pay.