Gradle Scripts 

Now turn your attention back to the Project window. Below the app portion is a section labeled Gradle 
Scripts. Click the disclosure button to display the files (if they are not already displayed). Gradle is the 
build system Android Studio uses to compile and package apps. The items listed here include files that 
have settings for the app and files that have instructions for building the app. For now, we will just 
examine one of these. Double-click on build.gradle (Module:app). The script file will be displayed in 
the editor, and you should see something like Listing 3.2. If the version numbers in your app are lower 
than those in Listing 3.2, you either do not have the latest version of Android Studio or the latest SDKs 
for Android. To update the SDKs, select Tools > SDK Manager. Make sure the SDK Platforms tab is 
selected. A list of SDKs will be displayed. Select the newest (top of the list) at a minimum and click OK. 
Click the defaults as they come up to download and install the SDKs.  This 
will take awhile. When complete, change your version in the Gradle 
script to the highest one you downloaded. 

To update Android Studio and other associated tools, click Help > Check for Updates. Click Update 
if any are found. 
 
changing and why. The Gradle build file contains a number of important elements. Please 
note that modifying elements of the Gradle file can cause significant problems. Be sure of what you are 
 
▪ Line 4—The compileSdkVersion tells the Gradle system what version of Android should be used to 
compile the code into an app. By default, the latest version of the Android SDK installed on your 
development machine should be identified here. 
▪ Lines 6–12—The defaultConfig element has attributes that provide information about the specific 
version of the app that is being compiled. All of these except applicationId can, and should, change in 
newer versions of your app. Both the minimum and target SDKs will change as new versions of Android 
are released. After the initial project creation, you will have to change these manually by opening the 
build script in the editor as you need to release new versions to your users. 
▪ Note the versionCode and versionName elements. Version code is an integer value. It is used to 
indicate that there is a new version of the app available. Increasing the value enables the Play Store 
to notify users of the app that a new version is available. It also controls the install of the upgrade so 
that no user data is lost during an upgrade. The Version Name is the displayed version of your app. 
Beyond that, it is nonfunctioning. However, it is good practice to have a consistent approach to 
changing this so that you know what version of the app is at issue when communicating with users 
about their problems with the app. The testInstrumentationRunner is used in testing code that needs 
to access the Android API. The default configuration for these tests is AndroidJUnitRunner.