Interpreting the XML 
 
Although the tabs in the Manifest editor can be used to create a basic configuration of the manifest, 
the ability to read and manipulate XML is a critical skill for the Android app developer. Modifying a 
manifest to make your app capable of more advanced behaviors is common, and most online help 
documentation for doing so, either from the Android Developer site or developer forums, is provided 
in XML. To get started, take a look at the manifest components in the AndroidManifest.xml file (Listing 
3.1). 
The manifest contains a number of XML elements. Those elements and their attributes define basic 
operational aspects of your app. Refer to the numbers in Listing 3.1 to see the complete code 
associated with each element explanation below. 

▪ Lines 3–4—The <manifest> component is the root element. The attributes associated with this 
element define the application package and potentially other attributes of the application, such as the 
version name or installation location preference. 
▪ Lines 6–12—The <application> element has both attributes and child elements that configure how 
the app works. Application attributes in this manifest define the app icon, label, and theme. Note that 
the attribute android:label displays Hello World with a greenish tint. (Note: This color may vary 
depending on your device parameters.) Hover your cursor over it, and the string resource file entry 
that has the value “Hello World” will be displayed. The entire application attribute may be highlighted 
in yellow. Hovering over the yellow displays a pop-up message that the app is not indexable by Google 
Search. Being indexable is not required for an app. 
▪ Line 14—Each activity in an app must have an entry in the <application> element. In our manifest, 
there is one activity: the one created when we created the project. Its attributes identify the Java class 
file for the activity and the display name of the activity. Currently, that name is the same as the app’s 
name. 
▪ The <activity> element tells the operating system that an activity has permission to run in your 
application. All activities used in an app must be defined in the manifest. If they are not, the app will 
crash when the user navigates to that activity. In this element, the Java source file for the activity and 
the activity’s title are identified. 
▪ Line 15—A child element of the <activity> element, the <intent-filter> element, defines what the 
Android OS should do with this activity. Not all activities will have an intent-filter. Specifically, activities 
that you want users to launch when they are using the app do not need intent-filters. However, for 
this app you want this activity to be displayed when the user runs it. 
▪ Line 16—Therefore, the <action> tag identifies the activity as the main or first activity to run. 
▪ Line 17—The <category> tag tells the OS to use the app launcher to start this activity.