Chapter 7: Monetizing Apps 
 
7.1 Introduction 
The market for apps is big and getting bigger. GSMA Intelligence has estimated that there were 2.9 
billion global smartphone users in 2017, with that number expected to grow to 4.5 billion by 2025. 
Statista meanwhile pegged the number of apps downloaded in 2018 at 194 billion, up 35% since 2016. 
Sensor Tower Intelligence estimates that mobile app revenue grew 23% to land at $71 billion in 2018. 
How do you get a piece of that pie? You’ve created and tested a great app. Now you want your efforts 
to pay off. What is the best way to do this? What options do you have to make money from apps? 
What do you have to do to start? In this chapter, you explore the various avenues for monetizing apps. 
 
App Monetization Strategies 
Making money from apps is possible but difficult. There are hundreds of thousands of apps available. 
The revenue generated from an individual app is typically very small, and the app stores take a 30% 
cut of all the revenue that your app generates. How do you get people to pay you to use yours? What 
are the different ways you can collect money for the use of your apps? More importantly, how can 
you get a lot of people to pay you to use the app so that the revenue generates enough to fund further 
development or expansion? These are some of the questions that many developers ask. Some 
questions have concrete answers; others are still very much open for debate. 

7.2 Paid Apps 
The simplest approach to monetizing an app is to charge for the download. The price is advertised in 
the app store, and the user decides, based on your description of the app, whether to buy it. If the 
user buys the app, you get the money. No need to worry about getting clicks or designing features to 
be purchased. The problem is getting enough customers to generate significant income. One approach 
to solving this problem is to raise the price of the app. However, as the price of the app goes up, the 
number of downloads goes down. As mentioned before, the market is very price sensitive. You will 
need a very enticing description of your app to get downloads. Additionally, after users have 
purchased the app, future updates are free. You would need to add a new app to charge again. 
A significant problem for all strategies, which is exacerbated with paid apps, is getting the potential 
customer to find your app among the thousands of apps in the app stores. If the user searches the app 
store using keywords, and your app is displayed along with a number of free apps, the user will often 
not even read your app’s description, focusing only on the free ones. To attempt to remedy this, you 
need to advertise. Advertising is a double-edged sword. It costs money! Even a limited Google ad 
campaign where you pay Google to display an ad whenever someone searches on a set of keywords 
costs hundreds of dollars. It takes a lot of $0.99 app sales to cover this cost. 
An up-and-coming paid app approach is to build apps for business use. An app such as Bossy (described 
in previous Chapter, “Why Mobile Apps?”) is designed to solve a business problem. A Bossy download 
costs $24.99. However, if your app solves a business problem, a business will be happy to pay the cost. 
This approach does require marketing. It is unlikely that businesses will search the Play Store for a 
solution to their business problems. This approach requires a much larger commitment than is typical 
for many app developers. It requires a business plan, establishing a target market, and directly 
contacting the market with information about your product. It also requires a potentially significant 
monetary investment. 