Android Play Store Distribution 

The Google Play Store does not provide any copy protection for your app. Instead, Google provides a 
Licensing Library, which allows developers to add copy protection to their apps. The Licensing Library 
needs to be added to the workspace just like the Google Play Services library was added (Chapter, 

“Maps and Location in Android”). After the library is added, search the developer site for detailed 
instructions for adding licensing to your app. When you add licensing to an app, each time the user 
opens the app, the Play Store is queried to determine whether the user bought the app. If the user 
did not buy the app, the developer can have the app close or take whatever action is deemed 
appropriate. If you do not use licensing, your app can be copied to other devices quite easily. 
After you have added licensing (if you want to), the app needs to be compiled into a signed Android 
application package (APK) file. Prior to compiling the app, you need to go through the code and 
remove any logging operations, all debug breakpoints, and address as many of the warnings identified 
by Android Studio as you think necessary. To create a signed APK (which is required by the Play Store), 
you need to set a private key. Fortunately, you can create your private key while completing the 
process to generate a signed APK. 

1. Click Build > Generate Signed Bundle/APK. . . . If you do not have a release key, you can create 
one here. If you do, you must select it here (Figure 16.1). Select APK and click Next. 
2. The Generate Signed Bundle or APK window will open (Figure 16.2). Click the Create new… 
button. The New Key Store window will open (Figure 16.3). Enter a name and password for the 
key store being generated. You can have multiple keys within one key store. The Key Alias is how 
you get back to this specific key. You can use the same key for all your apps or change keys for 
different apps. The alias also requires a password. Select the number of years you want this key 
to be valid. Finally, fill in any company information you want and click OK. 
 
3. The New Key Store window closes and the Generate Signed Bundle or APK window is again 
displayed, filled in with the key information (Figure 16.4). 
4. Click Next. By default, the generated APK is saved in the same location as the project (Figure 16.5). 
Use the folder button if you wish to change this. Next, select the Build Variant (debut or release), 
depending on what you are going to do with the app. Choose a signature version. V2 is the newer and 
improved signature, which protects the full APK. However, if you previously built an app with V1, it 
may not build with V2. Click Finish. The signed APK can be created and stored in the specified location. 
This APK will be uploaded to the Play Store during the publishing process. 