1. Open the project you worked on in 
previous Chapter or the project that you 
downloaded from the website. 
2. Right-click com.example.mycontactlist in 
the java folder of the Package Explorer. 
3. Select New > Java Class and enter ContactDBHelper as the name of the new class and click OK. 
4. Type the code in Listing 5.3 into the new class. 

The code is relatively standard and all that is needed to create the SQLite database and the one table  
required for the MyContactList app. It can be copied and modified for other apps. The code and its 
potential modifications are described as follows: 
▪ Line 6—The class ContactDBHelper is declared as a subclass of SQLiteOpenHelper. Most of its 
functionality is inherited from this class. 
▪ Line 8—A static variable is declared to name the database file. A database name is required. Use 
the .db extension. 
▪ Line 9—A static variable to hold the database version number is declared and initialized to 1. 
This variable is important. Every time the database is accessed, the existing database version is 
compared to the one here. If the number is higher, the onUpgrade method is executed. The number 
is incremented by the developer when they need to upgrade an existing database. 
▪ Lines 12–17—A string variable is declared and assigned to a SQL command that creates the table. 
It is good practice to define the table definitions in this manner, so that when a change to a table 
needs to be made, all you have to do is change the definition in one place and increment the version 
number. Declare a similar variable for each table needed in your database. 
▪ Lines 19–21—The constructor method calls the super class’s constructor method. Nothing else 
needs to be done in this method. The constructor creates a new instance of ContactDBHelper. 
▪ Lines 23–26—The onCreate method is called the first time the database is opened. If the 
database named in the DATABASE_NAME variable does not exist, this method is executed. The 
method executes the SQL assigned to the CREATE_TABLE_CONTACT variable. 
▪ Lines 28–35—The onUpgrade method is executed when the database is opened and the current 
version number in the code is higher than the version number of the current database. This method 
first deletes the contact table and then executes the onCreate method to create a new version of 
the table. 

Carefully planning the data needed by your app is important so that you don’t have to use 
this method much. What happens in this method is entirely up to the developer. Care must be taken, 
because if a table is dropped, all the user data currently in the table is lost. If you need to add 
columns to the table, consider executing an ALTER TABLE SQL command rather than a drop, and re- 
create the table. The Log command writes a message to LogCat, which is a system for collecting and 
viewing system debug information. You can view LogCat by selecting Window > Show View > Other… 
> LogCat. This command may be eliminated if you prefer. 

A database helper class is recommended practice in Android. The primary function of the class is to 
determine what must be done upon creation of the database and what must be done when the 
database is upgraded. The next step is to create a class that opens and closes the database and 
contains the queries used to store and retrieve data from the database.