3.3 Creating & Activating the Interface 
 
Creating the Interface 
The MyContactList app requires four activities and four layouts to provide the functionality described 
in previous Chapter. The app will use intents to switch between activities and pass data between these 
activities. Your first task in creating the MyContactsList app is to make sure you have access to the 
image resources provided with this book. You will need four image files. One image is the app icon 
(appicon.png), and the other three are used in the app for navigation (contactlisticon.png, 
settingsicon.png, mapicon.png). Every app needs a project, and MyContactList is no different. Your 
second task is to create a new project.

Importing a Project 
The completed project for each chapter may be available from your instructor. You can import the 
project by following these steps: 

1. Unzip the chapter code. 
2. Close any open projects in Android Studio to get to the Android Studio Welcome screen. Select 
Open an existing Android Studio project. 
3. Navigate to the unzipped code folder. Select MyContactList and click OK. 
The project will be imported and opened in Android Studio. 
If you don’t want to import the whole project, you can inspect the different files by navigating through 
the MyContactList folder. 

Create the Project 
Create a new Android project by selecting File > New > New Project from the menu if you have a 
project open. If you don’t have a project open, you can select Start a new Android Studio project from 
the Quick Start menu. 

1. In the Choose your project window, make sure Phone and Tablet is selected and then select Empty 
Activity. Click Next. 
2. Use the following values for the Configure your project window presented by the project creation 
wizard: 

Name: My Contact List 
Package name: com.example.mycontactlist 
Save location: Choose a location appropriate for your environment. 
Language: Java 
Minimum API level: API 15: Android 4.0.3 (IceCreamSandwich) 
Make sure the two checkboxes are not checked. 

3. Click Finish. 
 
To code the navigation, you need more than one activity. Create three more empty activities using the 
following process. Expand the app folder in the Project window and then expand the java folder. Right- 
click on com.example.mycontactlist and select New > Activity > Empty Activity (Figure 4.2).