8.3 App Distribution for the Enterprise 
App distribution within an organization differs between iOS and Android. Generally, distribution is 
easier because you are not required to conform to the specifications of the Play or App stores. 
 
Android Enterprise Distribution 

Distributing Android apps within an organization is very easy. You prepare an APK just like you did for 
the Play Store, and then you give it to your users. The easiest way to do this is by sending users an 
email with the APK attached. If users open the email on an Android device, the device automatically 
asks if they want to install it. However, for this to occur, users must have set their device to accept 
apps from unknown sources. To do this, go to the Settings app on the Android device and check the 
box next to Unknown Sources. Unfortunately, this item is not located in exactly the same spot in 
Settings on every Android device. Some common locations are under Applications or Security. 
Another approach would be to set up an internal website to distribute the app. Again, the user must 
check the box next to Unknown Sources. Although these are the two most common approaches, 
because Android is open, you can choose whatever method works for your organization. 
Many organizations also implement mobile device management (MDM) solutions to manage their 
mobile devices and app distribution. These systems can help organizations implement security 
controls on devices owned by employees, as well as devices owned by the enterprise. In addition, they 
can also be used to distribute both in-house and purchased apps to users. A detailed discussion of 
MDM is well beyond the scope of this book. 

iOS Enterprise Distribution 
The distribution of apps within the organization is a bit more complicated in iOS than it is in Android. 
The first step is to get an iOS Enterprise Developer license. The cost of the license is $299 per year but 
allows unlimited distribution of apps within the organization. You cannot sell apps in the App Store 
with this license. Organizations that want to do both internal and public development need both an 
Enterprise Developer license and an iOS Developer license. 

Distributing within the organization requires setting up both an enterprise distribution certificate and 
an enterprise distribution provisioning profile. These are then packaged with the app using Xcode. 
There is no need to use iTunes Connect with in-house apps. However, the provisioning profile expires 
after a year. Prior to that time, a new profile must be created, packaged with the app, and 
redistributed, or the app will stop working. 
 
After an app is compiled with the appropriate certificate and profile, it can be distributed through 
third-party MDM systems, or the app file can be sent directly to the users for installation. 