Now you have to add the identifier for the permission result. Add this line to the top of the file where 
you declared the other identifier: 
 
final int PERMISSION_REQUEST_CAMERA = 103; 
Add code to the onRequestPermissionsResult method to handle the request for permission to access 
the camera. Add the code in Listing 8.12 after the  closing } of  the 
case (PERMISSION_REQUEST_PHONE) statement 
 
Next, add the code to access the camera and get the returned picture. The camera app is, of course, 
an activity, so it must be started with an Intent. Use the code in Listing 8.13 to create the takePhoto 
method and the method to capture the picture. 
Not much code is required to implement the camera functionality, because the objects in the Android 
SDK do most of the work. 

▪ Line 2—A new intent is instantiated with a parameter that tells the system to open the camera in 
image capture mode. You do not have to check whether the camera is present. The permission you 
added in the manifest would not let your app run on the device if it did not have a camera. 
▪ Line 3—The Activity is started in a different way than you have seen before. In this case, you want 
the activity to return a value to the app after it has completed, so you use the startActivityForResult 
method. The parameters are the new Intent and a static variable called CAMERA_REQUEST. The 
variable CAMERA_REQUEST is identified as an error because it has not been defined. This variable is 
an integer that is used to identify the response from the camera when it finishes. The value is not fixed 
by the SDK but should be given a large integer so it is not confused with other built-in responses. Add 
this line after the class declaration to fix the error: 
 
final int CAMERA_REQUEST = 1888; 

▪ Line 4—The onActivityResult method is declared. This method receives a request code that was 
sent to the camera, a result code, and an intent that includes the data (the picture in this case) from 
the intent you started. This method is executed when the camera finishes. 
▪ Line 7—The returned request code is checked to see if it is the one sent to the camera. 
▪ Line 8—Check if the camera returned with a picture. 
▪ Line 9—The data from the Intent is assigned to a variable declared as a Bitmap. The method 
.g et("data") doesn’t specify a type of data to get from the extras, so it must be cast into a Bitmap. 
After the photo is captured, it is displayed in the ImageButton, and the contact object’s picture 
attribute is set to hold the photo. 
▪ Line 10—The picture is scaled so that a consistent-size photo is displayed in the ImageButton. The 
parameters of this method are the picture to be scaled, the height and width to scale to in pixels, and 
whether a filter should be applied during the scaling operation. Generally, when scaling down, this 
filter has no effect but can change the result when scaling up. 
The setPicture method must be added, along with a Bitmap variable to the Contact object. Open 
Contact.java and add a variable to the class using the following code: 
 
private Bitmap picture; 