Create the Data Source Class 
Create a new class named ContactDataSource. Enter the code in Listing 5.4, being sure to import 
any objects underlined in red. Two options will display for SQLException. Pick the java.sql version. 
The required methods are quite limited and fairly self-explanatory. 

▪ Lines 3–4—Variables are declared to hold instances of the SQLite database and the helper 
class. You will get a warning on the SQLiteDatabase line because you don’t use it yet. 
▪ Lines 6–8—The helper class is instantiated when the data source class is instantiated. 
▪ Lines 10–16—Open and close methods are used to access and end access to the database. 
 
The rest of the code in this class is dependent on 
the needs of the app. In the case of the MyContactsList app, the MainActivity needs to be able to 
insert new contacts and update data for existing contacts. This is supported by creating a method 
for each operation. The data for insertion or for updating a contact is passed to these methods in a 
Contact object. 
The Contact class does not exist, so the first task is to create that class. Create another new class in 
the src folder named Contact. Enter the code in Listing 5.5 to create the Contact object. The 
MainActivity uses objects of this class to store data entered by the user and pass it to the data source 
class. 
You can get significant help in creating this class from Android Studio. Once you have entered all the 
private instance variables, select Code > Generate > Constructor. Choose None, since this 
constructor takes no arguments. Then type the two lines that initialize the constructor. Next, select 
Code > Generate > Getters and Setters. Choose all the fields and click OK. 
 
The Contact class is a very simple class. It declares variables for each piece of data needed for a 
contact and declares a method to set the value of the variable and a method to get the value of the 
variable (getters and setter). The only real important code is in the class constructor method. Notice 
that in this method the contact’s ID is set to –1 by default. This is used by the app to determine if 
the contact is new and needs to be inserted or the contact already exists and needs to be updated. 
The birthday variable is also initialized to the current date. This allows the app to assume that there 
will always be a Calendar value in the birthday variable.