Other Income Possibilities 

Making money from selling apps or advertising in apps is possible. However, your income is very 
dependent on how successful your app is in terms of number of downloads. In fact, only a limited 
number of app development organizations get the lion’s share of the billion-dollar marketplace 
described earlier in this chapter. The rest of the market is divided up by thousands of developers. Even 
so, you should create, publish, and attempt to monetize an app in at least one of the markets. This 
will give you the knowledge and “street cred” to make money in other ways from app development. 
Although the authors of this book have several apps available in both markets, we make far more 
money doing training and consulting than we do from the monetization of our apps.
 
One of the surest ways to make money from app development is to get paid to do it for someone else. 
This way, you get paid regardless of whether the app sells. App developers are a very hot commodity 
in the business world. The average salary for an app developer employed by an organization is around 
$100K/year. You have to sell a lot of $0.99 apps each year to make this kind of money. Vision Mobile 
estimates that 43% of enterprise app developers earn at least $120,000 per year, while only 19% of 
consumer app developers earn the same amount. If you establish your ability by publishing apps for 
both iOS and Android, you can greatly increase your marketability. This is true if you intend to work 
for a corporation or if you want to work for yourself as an independent developer. 
You can approach independent development as a consultant or a contract developer. Developing a 
consulting business requires business planning. You need to identify your potential market, get your 
business name out to potential customers, and develop marketing materials to sell your ability to 
perform the job they need done. Another approach is to become a freelancer. There are sites that 
post small jobs that businesses need done (e.g., http://www.freelancersoutpost.com). You find a job 
that you are interested in and place a bid. If the organization accepts your bid, you develop the app 
for them and get paid when you’re done. The advantage to this approach is that you can do it as a 
sideline business to pick up extra income. The disadvantage is that most projects have fairly small price 
tags, so it is much more difficult to make a living if this is your only significant form of income. 
 
 