1. Switch to activity_main.xml, and then highlight and copy all the XML that defines the navigation 
bar. Be sure to include the start <LinearLayout:> and end </LinearLayout> tags. 
2. Open the activity_contact_list.xml file in the layouts folder by double-clicking it. Switch to the 
Text tab and paste the copied code just before the last 
</androidx.constraintlayout.widget.ConstraintLayout> tag in the file. 
3. Make sure the following attribute is in the root ConstraintLayout in each XML file: 
xmlns:app=“http://schemas.android.com/apk/res-auto“. 
4. Repeat for the other two layouts.

Switch to Design view to verify that the navigation bar is properly displayed. Close the file and repeat 
the process to add the navigation bar to activity_contact_map.xml and activity_contact_settings.xml. 
Verify that all were properly copied by switching Design view for each file to check that each layout 
looks like the first layout, that a dark blue navigation bar is at the bottom, and that three image buttons 
are included in it. Note that you may get a rendering error. Close the error window with the x on the 
top right. Oftentimes, when making wholesale changes with cut and paste, this error occurs. If the 
layout is correct, there is no need to worry about it. 
 
Create the Contact Layout 
The contact activity provides functionality associated with adding 
and modifying information about individual contacts. Although it is 
the most complicated layout in the MyContactsList app, it also 
demonstrates the use and configuration of a significant number of 
interface elements available in the Android platform. 
There are three major sections in this layout (Figure 4.5). The 
navigation bar completed in the previous section is one of these. 
The second is another LinearLayout at the top of the screen to 
display   the   buttons   that   allow   the   user   to   access   overall 
functionality for the screen—in other words, a layout that will function as a toolbar. The third is a 
ScrollView that holds all the widgets that allow the user to enter information about a contact. A 
ScrollView is used to ensure that users can access all the data entry widgets, regardless of the size of 
their device.