Chapter 3: Navigation, Interface Design and Persistent Data  
 
3.1 Introduction 
App development for mobile devices is both similar to and different from development for other 
platforms. Navigation within an app has these similarities and differences (as discussed in previous 
Chapter, “App Design Issues and Considerations”). Different functionality is provided on different 
screens (windows in a traditional environment), and the app designer has to both provide the capacity 
to switch between those screens and make it easy and relatively obvious for users to do so when they 
want or need to access the functionality provided by those screens. Likewise, screen design is both 
similar to and different from the traditional user interface design. In a traditional environment, a 
window design is made up of a set of visible objects that give the user the ability to accomplish some 
component of the overall task. This is the same in the mobile environment. However, the objects 
available for design differ in both form and function, the amount of screen real estate available is 
much more limited, and often the amount of real estate available changes among devices that can use 
your app. 

This chapter introduces you to many of the principles and components of interface design 
and navigation in the Android platform. To fully explore these concepts, the chapter guides you 
through the development of MyContactList navigation and the development of the Contact interface. 
The capability to have data that the app uses or relies on to continue to be available regardless of 
changes to the app’s state as it moves through the app life cycle is vital to the user experience with 
the app—and for the app itself to be a useful tool. For this to occur, the data needs to persist through 
these life-cycle changes. Android provides several ways in which the developer can make data persist. 
This chapter introduces you to three of these data persistence approaches. A significant amount of 
time will be spent on understanding and using the SQLite database system incorporated with Android, 
but the chapter also discusses storing data in files and demonstrates how to store individual pieces of 
data in an object that persists across an app’s life cycle.