After creating the Contact class, you can now code the insert and update methods in the 
ContactDataSource class. Enter the code in Listing 5.6 to create these methods. You should enter 
the code after the close() method. 
 
The two methods are very similar. The primary difference is that the updateContact method uses the 
Contact ID to overwrite values in the Contact table, whereas the insertContact method just inserts 
contact data and the database inserts the ID because the _id field was declared as an autoincrement 
field. 

▪ Line 2—A Boolean variable is declared and assigned the value false. Both the update and insert 
methods return a Boolean to tell the calling code if the operation succeeded. The value is initially set 
to false and then changed to true only if the operation succeeds. 
▪ Line 4—The ContentValues object is used to store a set of key/value pairs that are used to assign 
contact data to the correct field in the table. 
▪ Lines 6–14—The values for the table are retrieved from the contact object, associated with the 
correct field, and inserted into the ContentValues object. Note that the date is stored as millis, because 
SQLite doesn’t support storing data as dates directly. 
▪ Line 16—The database’s insert method is called and passed to the name of the table and values 
to insert. The method returns the number of records (rows) successfully inserted. The value is 
compared to zero. If it is greater than zero, then the operation succeeded and the return value is set 
to true. 
▪ Lines 18–20—If the method throws an exception, the return value is already set to false, so we 
don’t have to do anything. 
▪ Line 27—The update procedure needs the contact’s ID to correctly update the table. This value is 
retrieved from the contact object and assigned to the variable rowId. 
▪ Line 41—The database’s update method is called to place the changes in the database. Just like 
the insert method, if the operation is a success, the method returns the number of records affected. 
If this number is greater than zero, the operation was successful. 
The SQLite database is ready for use. An object to create and upgrade the database has been 
implemented, and another object to open, close, and access the database has also been created. You 
are now ready to save contact data!