For iOS, you can supply screenshots at the highest resolution your app supports, taking differences in 
user interface into account. For instance, if your app supports split screen on iPhone 11 or 11 Pro Max, 
you may need to provide a separate screenshot at that resolution in addition to lower-resolution 
images for the iPhone SE. The exact dimensions of the screenshots also depend on a number of 
factors, such as whether the app shows status bars.

If you are targeting tablets, you also will need to provide screenshots. You can provide up to eight 
screenshots for each targeted Android device and up to four screenshots for each targeted iOS device. 
For iOS apps, you also have to supply a launch image that matches the resolution for the devices on 
which the app will run. The launch image is displayed while the app is loading and is intended to help 
give the impression that the app is launching quickly. It should thus include a blank screen of what the 
first screen in the app would look like. The launch screen can be set up as a storyboard inside Xcode— 
in fact, the default project types include a default LaunchScreen.storyboard for this exact purpose. 
Using the storyboard, you can create an actual user interface for the launch image, or you can use a 
static graphic image. 

In addition to preparing screenshots, you should also prepare a description of your app. This narrative 
is presented to potential customers, so you should be as clear as possible in describing exactly what 
the app is designed to do and why it is advantageous for the customer to buy the app. For iOS apps, 
you will also have to provide a description of any specific conditions or requirements that the tester 
will need to know to adequately review your app. 
Other considerations prior to beginning the publication process include determining what price you 
want to charge for the app. In Android, you enter this price. In iOS, you will be prompted to select 
from a set of pricing tiers. You should also determine what general category best describes the app 
(e.g., game, sports, tool, and so on) because you will have to indicate this during the publishing 
process. Finally, you will need to determine in which countries your app should be made available. 
And if your app is truly international, you should also consider adding internationalization support to 
the app, including translation, support for different currencies, number formatting, units of 
measurements, and so on. 
After you have completed the previous steps, you are ready to publish. Although there are many 
similarities, each store has its own process and requirements. Additionally, these processes change 
frequently. You should study the specific description of the procedure in the developer documentation 
for each platform. To gain access to these resources for iOS, go to http://developer.apple.com. To 
access Android resources, go to http://developer.android.com/distribute. 