2.2 Components of the IDE 
 
Editor Panel 
Many of the items in the IDE will be explained on a “need-to-know” basis. For now, we will examine 
just a few. The right section is the Editor. Much of the development work is done here, including the 
user interface (UI) design and writing code. It should currently be displaying the code file for the 
MainActivity. It will also display a tab for the layout file associated with the Main Activity. Click on the 
activity_main.xml tab. This will display the XML that creates the activity’s interface. You can switch 
between graphical layout and the XML code that generates the layout with the tabs below the layout. 
One tab, labeled Design, shows the interface as the user would see it (on the left) and the blueprint 
view of the layout (on the right). The blueprint view shows the relative position and sizes of the items  
in the display. The other tab, labeled Text, shows the XML that generates the visual interface. Click on 
the Design tab to see the display. It should look like Figure 3.3. Note: If the properties window on the 
right-hand side is not displayed, click on Hello World in the Design view or Blueprint view. 
 
Project Panel 

The left side of the IDE shows the Project window. The Project window displays the structure of the 
Android app and is used to move between different components of the app. Many of these items will 
be generated for you, and you will work with many of the others as you create your app. The java 
folder will contain all the Java code files for the app. Each file typically represents one class. Click the 
disclosure button to the left of the java folder and its subfolders until you see MainActivity.java (which 
may already be displayed). This is where the code to create the activity’s functionality is written. 
Double-click the MainActivity.java file. The file contents are displayed in the editor with some Java 
code listed (again, this may already be displayed). This code is explained later. 
  
Resource Folders 
Next, look for the res folder in the Project window. This folder contains a number of subfolders that 
all contain a different kind of resource file needed for 
your Android app. One very important note about 
resource files: There are no capital letters allowed in the 
file names! The drawable folders are for images. There 
can be multiple subfolders in drawable.