Get Coordinates from the Map 
 
Return to activity_contact_map.xml and delete all the widgets you put in the layout except the navbar. 
Be sure to leave the root ConstraintLayout. 

Next, add a MapFragment. The MapFragment is not available in the Palette, so it 
must be added through XML. Switch to Text view and refer to Listing 7.10 to do this. 
Android versus iOS: 

Maps Setting up your app project and development environment for using maps is significantly more difficult 
in Android than it is in Xcode. In Xcode, in contrast to what you’ve seen in this chapter, all you need 
to do is include the MapKit Framework in the project and you are ready to go. However, you will be 
using Apple Maps rather than Google Maps. 

Using maps in either Android or iOS has its own unique challenges. Some things are easier in Android, 
such as zooming in on the map or adding annotations to the markers put on a map. Other things are 
easier in Xcode, such as interacting with the map with the code. 

The map object is not coded as a standard widget. Rather, a fragment is added to the layout with the 
standard set of attributes for size and positioning. The fragment has to be told what type of object it 
is. That is the reason for the class attribute. In this case, you use the SupportMapFragment to make 
the map object compatible with the earlier versions of Android targeted in this app. Once the XML is 
added, switch back to Design view and click on the map in the Component Tree. The map fragment 
will cover the whole layout. Grab the lower-right solid-blue square on the fragment and drag up and 
to the left so that the fragment is above the navigation bar. Set the top, right, and left constraints of 
the fragment to the parent with a margin of 0dp. Drag the bottom constraint of the fragment to the 
top constraint of the navigation bar. (Note: You may have to zoom the display to do this accurately.) 

Set its margin to 0 also. Finally, set the layout_width and layout_height attributes to match_constraint. 
The map doesn’t display in Design view—just the positioning of the fragment. To see a map, you have 
to write code. Open ContactMapActivity.java. Delete the LocationManager, LocationListener, and 
Location variables. This will cause a bunch of errors. We will correct them as we modify the code to 
work with maps. Modify the class declaration and onCreate method to match Listing 7.11. Import any 
required classes. 

 
