The setContentView method accepts a single View instance; as a result, you use layouts to add 
multiple controls to your Activity. 
 
If you’re using Fragments to encapsulate portions of your Activity’s UI, the View inflated within 
your Activity’s onCreate handler will be a layout that describes the relative position of each of your 
Fragments (or their containers). The UI used for each Fragment is defined in its own layout and inflated 
within the Fragment itself, as described later in this chapter. 
 
Note that once a Fragment has been inflated into an Activity, the Views it contains become part of 
that Activity’s View hierarchy. As a result, you can find any of its child Views from within the parent 
Activity, using findViewById as described previously. 
 
Introducing Layouts 
 
Layout Managers (or simply layouts) are extensions of the ViewGroup class and are used to position 
child Views within your UI. Layouts can be nested, letting you create arbitrarily complex UIs using 
a combination of layouts. 
 
The Android SDK includes several layout classes. You can use these, modify them, or create your own 
to construct the UI for your Views, Fragments, and Activities. It’s up to you to select and use the right 
combination of layouts to make your UI aesthetically pleasing, easy to use, and efficient to display. The 
following list includes some of the most commonly used layout classes available in the Android SDK: 
 
• FrameLayout — The simplest of the Layout Managers, the Frame Layout pins each child view 
within its frame. The default position is the top-left corner, though you can use the gravity 
attribute to alter its location. Adding multiple children stacks each new child on top of the one 
before, with each new View potentially obscuring the previous ones. 
• LinearLayout — A Linear Layout aligns each child View in either a vertical or a horizontal line. 
A vertical layout has a column of Views, whereas a horizontal layout has a row of Views. The 
Linear Layout supports a weight attribute for each child View that can control the relative size 
of each child View within the available space. 
• RelativeLayout — One of the most flexible of the native layouts, the Relative Layout  
lets you defi ne the positions of each child View relative to the others and to the screen 
boundaries. 
• GridLayout — Introduced in Android 4.0 (API level 14), the Grid Layout uses a rectangular grid 
of infinitely thin lines to lay out Views in a series of rows and columns. The Grid Layout 
is incredibly flexible and can be used to greatly simplify layouts and reduce or eliminate the 
complex nesting often required to construct UIs using the layouts described above. It’s good 
practice to use the Layout Editor to construct your Grid Layouts rather than relying on tweaking 
the XML manually. 
 
Each of these layouts is designed to scale to suit the host device’s screen size by avoiding the use of 
absolute positions or predetermined pixel values. This makes them particularly useful when designing 
applications that work well on a diverse set of Android hardware. 