Chapter 5: Navigation and Information Display, Maps and Location 

5.1 Introduction 
Lists are very useful tools and have become ubiquitous in mobile computing. Flick scrolling a list is so 
common an action that my daughter once asked, after seeing my brother-in-law with a cast needed 
because of carpal tunnel syndrome from computer use, if she was going to get a similar disease 
because she does this so often. With that, she moved her index finger in the list swipe gesture. Lists 
are so common because they are a very useful way to organize, display, and access large amounts of 
data on a very small screen. This chapter explores the implementation of lists in Android. It covers 
simple lists that exploit the built-in list capabilities of the Android SDK and then examines the 
development of more complex lists, tailored specifically to the task at hand. Finally, the chapter 
concludes by introducing passing data between activities, using user preferences to sort a list, and 
changing the app’s launch activity to complete the ContactListActivity. 

In the MyContactList app, you will use the simple list to display the names of each of the contacts. The 
simple list will allow the user to click an entry in the list and go to a different activity. You will increase 
the functionality by displaying a more complex list that also shows the contact’s phone number in a 
different font. This version also allows the user to delete entries and shows the full contact information 
in the Main Activity. You will also see how sorting can be implemented based on the settings screen.

Additionally, it demonstrates how to set up the Android Studio development
environment to work with maps in Android 
as the proper way to implement a list. An Adapter is dynamically 
associated with the RecyclerView. The adapter provides access to the underlying data source for the list 
and implements special list functionality, such as deleting list 
items. Almost all the functionality of the list in terms of its display and 
behavior is implemented in the adapter, regardless of how simple 
or complex the list is. A ViewHolder is an object that belongs to the adapter. It describes 
the item view and provides access to the widgets in the item layout. The final component required to 
display a list is a LayoutManager. A LayoutManager is responsible for measuring and positioning items 
(views) in the list, as well as determining when a view needs to be recycled (or reused because another 
item in the list needs to be displayed). Different LayoutManagers can be used to display a simple 
vertical scrolling list, a grid display, or horizontally scrolling lists. Refer to Figure 6.1 for a visual 
representation of the relationship between these objects.