Get Coordinates from the GPS Sensor 

The network sensor uses cell towers and Wi-Fi access points to determine the device’s location. It is 
not as accurate as the GPS sensor, but it is faster. Additionally, it is available on all devices, whereas a 
GPS sensor is not. Our discussion first focuses on accessing location using the GPS sensor. It might 
make more sense to begin with the network sensor, since it is less accurate. However, the network 
sensor cannot be tested on the emulator, whereas the GPS sensor can. In addition, the code required 
to use both sensors is almost identical, so learning one versus the other first does not really matter. 
Regardless of which is done first, the first step in using these sensors is to add the permissions required 
to access them. 
These permissions are used to alert the user during installation or upgrade what the app is allowed to 
access on the device. The user permits that app to use those devices, services, or data by choosing to 
install the app after reviewing the permissions. Permissions are set in the Android manifest file. If a 
permission is required by what you are trying to do but is not in the manifest, the app will crash. 
Android SDK version 23 (Android 6.0 Marshmallow) changed the way permissions work. We will 
address that later. However, for your app to run on both older and new versions of the Android OS, 
you must code for both. The following instructions are for older versions. 
Open the AndroidManifest.xml file and enter the permissions in Listing 7.2. Put these permissions 
after the <manifest tag and before the <application tag. 
 
To use the GPS sensor, you replace the geocoding code in the Get Location button with GPS listener 
code. You also add a method to turn off the location sensing when the app enters the Paused life- 
cycle state. First, go to ContactMapActivity.java and add the following variable declarations just after 
the class declaration:

LocationManager locationManager; 
LocationListener gpsListener; 
  
You will have to import these classes. Use the android.location option, not the 
com.google.android.gms one. Next, go to the initGetLocationButton method and replace all the code 
in the onClick method with the code in Listing 7.3. You will also have to import some objects after 
entering the code. 