7.4 Subscriptions 

Selling your app outright and then collecting no revenue from a customer as long as they use the app 
often does not create enough sustainable revenue to keep the developer in business. Offering 
subscriptions to all or some portion of the app may be a good choice to counter this problem. Both 
Google and Apple offer this approach for their apps. However, the challenge becomes keeping the 
app’s content relevant or the app useful enough to get customers to keep renewing their 
subscriptions. This approach  requires coding  similar to in-app  billing, where the app  checks its 
subscription status during use of the app to ensure that the customer is up-to-date. 

7.5 Understanding the Economics of App Stores 

Often developers are surprised that they have to pay Google and Apple 30% of any sales made in the 
app stores (whether from paid apps or in-app purchases). We have often heard from clients that 
paying 30% to Google and Apple makes it impossible to do business, because they don’t have 30% 
margins in the rest of their business to give away. To the extent that a mobile app sale replaces a 
regular sale of the same product, this argument makes sense. However, if the sale of the mobile app 
is incremental to the rest of the business, the additional revenue could be lower. 
You have to remember that you pay Apple and Google to set up an entirely new sales channel. They 
run and operate the stores, so you don’t have to worry about setting up a new infrastructure to handle 
sales of mobile apps. 

If you wanted to avoid giving 30% of your sales to Google and Apple, you can carry out the sales outside 
of the app stores. For instance, you could set up your own website where users register for an account, 
and then any sales made on your website could be made accessible to the app with a login in the app. 
This is the model that Amazon uses with the Kindle app. If you want to read a Kindle book on a mobile 
device, you buy the book on Amazon’s website, and then you log in to the Kindle app and your content 
from Amazon is available to you. 

Apple is particularly strict about restrictions on the purchasing of content outside the app store, so 
Amazon isn’t even allowed to have a link in its app that takes users to their store, where they can buy 
the books. 
If you wanted to avoid the need to register users, you could also create a system where you email an 
unlock code to users who have made a purchase. The app could then unlock a specific functionality 
based on the unlock code. However, you have to be careful in designing the system for the unlock 
codes, both technically and because of the workload involved. And depending on how you set it up, 
you may also run afoul of Apple’s App Store rules for in-app purchases. You might find that the work 
involved makes in-app purchasing more appealing. 