Several years ago, business process reengineering (BPR) received significant attention in the business 
and academic worlds. The idea of reengineering was important because of what was termed the 
“productivity paradox.” For years, organizations were investing a significant amount of money in 
information technology without realizing corresponding significant increases  in productivity. 
Investigation found that a major contributor to this problem was that organizations were using the 
new technology to simply automate existing processes. Information technology was applied  to 
portions of the existing process to make it faster or to increase accuracy. This approach produced 
improvements, but they were incremental rather than revolutionary. As businesses became more 
adept with the technology and the technology became more capable, it was recognized that the full 
potential of the technology was not being realized, and companies began rethinking entire processes 
to take advantage of the technology. Noteworthy improvements in process measures were realized, 
and BPR was born. 

Mobile technology is likely to follow a similar path in application to business 
processes. However, that path could be traversed much more quickly because 
of the past experience of applying technology to business processes. The 
excitement over mobile technology is evidence that a more aggressive 
approach to reengineering processes may be more appropriate than a simple 
automation approach. Still,  there  is  room  for  automation, 
especially  in  smaller  businesses  that may have found that the cost, 
complexity, and nonmobile nature of traditional computing platforms 
made technological solutions to their business process not feasible. Bossy 
(Figure 1.1) is an example of this. The app is designed for the dairy farmer. 
As the farmer attends his cows, with Bossy, he at his fingertips a complete display 
of the actions that need to be taken on different animals in his herd. 
This automates the process of tracking the animals on paper or on a desktop computer with written 
notes used while attending the herd. 