In the Configure Activity window, change the Activity Name to ContactListActivity. Accept the defaults 
(check Generate Layout file, Layout name: activity_contact_list, uncheck Launcher Activity, Package 
name: com.example.mycontactlist, Source Language: Java). Click Finish. Repeat this process to add 
another two activities to your project. Give the activities the names ContactMapActivity and 
ContactSettingsActivity. Find the res folder in the Project Explorer and expand the layout folder. You 
should now have four layout XML files, one for each activity. 

Set the Launch Icon 
The launch icon is the picture displayed above the app’s name in the device’s Apps screen. An icon 
should give the user some idea about the function of the app. Launch icons are stored in the mipmap 
folder of the res folder in the Project window. You should have a number of app icons of different sizes 
named exactly the same name. To set the launch icon, you will copy the launch images provided to 
the mipmap folder in your Android project. There are four versions of the launch image provided. Each 
is in a different folder. Each will have to be individually copied to your project. Follow this procedure: 

1. Expand the res folder, which is in the app folder, until you see the mipmap folder. 
2. Open Windows Explorer and navigate to the folder where you placed the Images folder; then 
open one of the HDPI, MDPI, XHDPI, XXHDPI, or XXXHDPI folders. Right-click on the 
contactlist_launch_icon and choose Copy. 
3. Go back to Android Studio and right-click on the mipmap folder. Choose Paste. On the window 
that opens, select the folder that has a name that ends with characters matching the folder from 
which you copied the image. Click OK. Repeat for all five images in individual folders. 
4. Open   the   AndroidManifest.xml   file   and   find   the   android:icon=   attribute.   Replace 
@mipmap/ic_launcher with @mipmap/contactlist_launch_icon. 
 
Your app will now display the image as the app’s launch icon rather than the default launch icon. We 
won’t worry about including a round icon. However, if we did, the process for adding it to the project 
would be the same.