A second issue to be aware of is time delays. To access a hardware component, you must use the 
component’s application program interface (API). The component may take some time to turn on and 
respond with the information you need. If this delay is significant, it may affect the user experience in 
such a way that your app is viewed negatively. For example, the GPS system takes time to acquire 
enough satellite signals to accurately locate your device. This could take more than a minute. Stopping 
app function until this happens should be avoided, if possible. If the user is left waiting for the device 
to respond, the screen may time out. This issue may be encountered even if you did everything 
properly and turned off the services when the app is about to be sent to the background and then 
turned them on again when the user reopens the app. However, if the activation of the device takes 
time, your app will end up hanging every time it returns from the background. This vicious circle will 
not please the user. The proper solution to this particular problem is to use a separate execution 

It’s My Fault! 
Early on in my app development efforts, I (Michael) created an app that used GPS data to map certain 
points. This app was made available in the Android Play Store, but to try to expand the availability of 
the app, I submitted it to the Amazon App Store. Unlike Android, Amazon reviews the apps submitted 
to them before they make them available. They rejected it because it didn’t work! I couldn’t believe 
it. It always worked for me. However, they were testing it indoors where it never got a GPS reading, 
and therefore nothing worked. My design didn’t account for this possibility, and the entire 
functionality was dependent on getting a GPS reading. Realizing that much of the app’s functionality 
did not require the GPS, I redesigned it to handle the situation and Amazon eventually accepted it. 
However, if this happened to a user, you might not get a second chance—or worse, the user might 
write a scathing review of your app. 