iOS App Store Distribution 

The Apple App Store provides strong controls over illegal copying of your app. As a developer, unlike 
in Android, you don’t have to worry about setting up any licensing. However, the built-in copy 
protection requires other additional work to get your app published. The first step is to set up your 
Distribution Certificate and Distribution Provisioning Profile. The next step is to set up an entry for 
your app in iTunes Connect (https://itunesconnect.apple.com). You will have to use your developer ID 
to sign in. iTunes Connect is the website that is used to manage many aspects of your app, including 
seeing reports on how the app is performing. 

In iTunes Connect, you provide information about the app, pricing, and screenshots prior to being able 
to upload the app. To start, click Manage Your Apps in the console. In this section, you can add iOS or 
Mac OS X apps, depending on your developer license. Click Add New App. If you have a Mac Developer 
account, you will be asked to select either iOS App or Mac OS X app. Select iOS app. 
The App Information screen requires selecting the default language of the app, entering the app name, 
entering a SKU number, and selecting the Bundle ID. The SKU number is a unique number used to 
identify your app. A standard approach is to concatenate the year of publication, the number of the 
app in your stock, and the version number. For example, your first app could be 201700010001. For 
Bundle ID, it is best to select Xcode iOS Wildcard AppID and then enter the app name in Bundle ID 
Suffix. The Bundle ID Suffix must match the name that is entered as the last part of the Bundle 
Identifier in the Project Summary in Xcode. For the MyContactList app, the Bundle ID you used was 
com.pearson.MyContactList. The Bundle ID Suffix is MyContactList for this app. When it’s complete, 
click the Continue button. 

The next section is too detailed to go through in depth here. In this section, you provide an app 
description, screenshots, icon, rating and categorization, and specific review information, much like 
you did for your Android app. Once it is complete and you click the Save button, you will get a summary 
screen for the app. The app status should be listed as Prepare for Upload. Click View Details below the 
app icon, and then click Ready to Upload Binary at the top right of the next screen. You will be asked 
to verify that your app is compliant with export laws if it contains any cryptography. Choose the 
answer that fits your app and click Save, and then Continue. Your app status is now Waiting for Upload. 
Open your app in Xcode to complete the process. 