Chapter 8: Publishing Apps 
  
8.1 Introduction 
Creating an app can be a fun and challenging exercise, but for most developers, this is not enough. 
The finished app has to be available for someone to use to complete the process. Apps are made 
available to their audience by publishing them. The manner of publication is dependent on the target 
audience and the platform. The two primary audiences are typically the employees of an organization 
for which the app was developed or the public. Many aspects of publishing are the same for both 
audiences. However, some important differences exist that the developer needs to be aware of. 
Likewise, publishing Android versus iOS apps can be very similar, but with some significant differences. 
One of the most important differences from publishing traditional desktop software is that the means 
of publishing mobile apps are much more restricted. For consumer apps, there are gatekeepers in the 
form of app stores that you will have to interact with to distribute your app. In this chapter, you learn 
the basics of publishing apps for both consumer and enterprise audiences in both platforms.

8.2 App Distribution through the App/Play Stores 
Both Apple and Google provide a marketplace where developers can sell their apps. To publish an app 
in either of these stores, a developer must configure the app and conform to the requirements 
established by their sponsors. A significant amount of the work required to publish the app should be 
done during development. Both Google and Apple have requirements and guidelines for apps that 
should be incorporated during development. You should read through these guidelines prior to 
development so that you are not doing a lot of rework just to get the app published. Apple is especially 
meticulous about these rules. Every app is reviewed before it is published, and if your app does not 
conform, it will be rejected. The guidelines for Apple’s app review are available at 

https://developer.apple.com/app-store/review/guidelines, and Google’s are at 

https://play.google.com/about/developer-content-policy. Google may publish an application  that 
does not meet its store requirements, but it will remove the app from the store later if it finds that 
the app violates its rules. 

When you are confident that your app meets the publication requirements of the marketplace you 
are targeting, the process of publishing requires several steps in either marketplace and is greatly 
facilitated by preparing prior to beginning the process. The preparation is similar for both stores. You 
will need to prepare an icon for your app. Android requires an app icon sized to 512 × 512 pixels, 
whereas iOS requires the icon to be 1,024 × 1,024 pixels. Both platforms require at least one 
screenshot of your app.