Setting Up for Maps 
The final way to get the GPS coordinates of your device’s location is through the 
map object. The map has built-in methods that access the sensors 
Android versus iOS: Location Sensors 

Working with location data on iOS is similar to Android. However, although iOS devices also have both 
GPS and network sensors, iOS developers don’t have access to the specific sensors. Instead, the 
developer specifies a desired accuracy of the location data, and the system chooses the appropriate 
sensor to provide the data. This allows the system to optimize the sensor usage for battery and 
performance of the device. 

without you having to write any code. This makes things easier, because all sensor management is 
handled by the map. The drawback is that you must display a map in the layout to use these 
features. There are a few things that need to be done before you can successfully add maps to your 
app. The first is to load the Google Play Services SDK into your workspace. Select Tools > Android 
> SDK Manager. The SDK Manager window opens and shows a list of available SDK platforms. Click 
on the SDK Tools tab. Check the box next to Google Play Services (Figure 7.7), and click OK. 
Click OK in the next window that opens to begin the download and installation process. When 
installation is done, click the Finish button.

Now that the Google Play Services SDK is downloaded, it must be added to your project. Select File > 
Project Structure. Refer to the instructions for adding a library dependency earlier in the chapter 
(Figures 7.2 and 7.3), but this time type play-services into the  search and select 
com.android.google.gms:play-services. 

To use Google Maps in an app, Google requires that the app contain an API key. There are two types 
of keys: debug and release. The debug key can work only in debug mode and is associated with your 
development machine. An app compiled for release with a debug key will not run the maps portion of 
the app. To release the app, you need to follow a slightly different procedure to register with Google 
to get a release key. The API key allows you (and Google) to track how often the users of your app 
access the map functionality. For now, you need only a debug key.