8.4 Testing and Fragmentation 

Testing is a critical component of app development. This is especially true for Android because of the 
wide array of devices that the operating system is installed on. However, it is critical that apps 
developed on either platform be tested on real devices prior to release. Testing an app is very much 
like testing any other piece of software in that a comprehensive test plan must be established and 
followed. Testing should also be performed by individuals outside the development team. 
A comprehensive test plan should include thorough black box unit testing, including equivalence 
partitioning, boundary value analysis, and cause-effect graphing. Fortunately, the innate organization 
of apps into individual screens makes it easy to test each screen as a unit. To use equivalence 
partitioning in a screen, identify all the possible outcomes of the user interaction with the screen and 
identify the input or other data that would lead to that outcome. For example, in the ContactActivity 
screen in the MyContactList app, there would be nine possible outcomes (refer back to Figure 2.5). 
Each navigation button opens the corresponding screen, the Toggle button enables and disables 
editing, the Save button saves the contact, the Picture button opens the camera and returns a photo, 
the Phone buttons open the phone app and dial the correct number, and the Change Birthdate button 
changes the birthday. Each of these outcomes should be tested in every iteration of the app. 
In boundary value analysis, the limits for each input should be identified, and each side of the limit 
should be tested. Again, using the ContactActivity screen as an example, one limit might be that the 
app shouldn’t store birthdays that are a future date. A test for this limit would enter a date equal to 
the date the app is being tested and the next day. The today’s date test should be displayed; the next 
day’s date should result in an error message. Other boundary values for this screen might include 
entering too many and too few digits for a telephone number. 
Finally, in cause-effect graphing, each outcome identified in equivalence partitioning is examined to 
identify the possible paths that could lead to the expected outcome. For example, the Save button on 
the ContactActivity screen should either save the contact or alert the user to any errors that may have 
caused the save to fail. Should the contact be saved only if all the inputs on the screen have data, or 
is some subset acceptable? Will the app save only a name? If a street address is entered, are the city 
and state required? All possible combinations that lead to either a saved contact or an error message 
should be tested. 