Starting a New Project 

Android Studio organizes apps into projects that are stored in a folder designated by the developer. 
The folder contains the application’s code and resources, code libraries used by the application (or 
references to them), and metadata that is used to keep track of environment information for the 
workspace.

To begin, run Android Studio. Android Studio will open the project you were working on when you last 

closed the IDE. If no project was open, the IDE displays the Welcome window, which lists a number of 
quick-start options, including starting a new project, opening an existing project, importing a project 
from another IDE (e.g., Eclipse), and other update and configuration options. Most IDEs are designed 
with the idea that developers are going to be working on the same machine each time they work on 
a project. This can cause problems in the education environment, where students do not have the 
ability to work on the same machine and/or store their work on the machine they are currently 
working on. However, moving projects in Android Studio is really just a matter of moving the project 
folder and opening it on the new machine. 
 
Creating the Project 
The traditional beginning tutorial for many different languages and development platforms is Hello 
World. Your first Android app will be a slightly modified Hello World app. In Android Studio, all Android 
apps are created within a project. To create your first app, you will have to create your first project. 
Creating a new project requires stepping through a series of windows and making choices to configure 
your app. To get started, from Android Studio’s Welcome window choose Start a new Android Studio 
project. The Choose your project window will open. In this window you choose the type of activity 
you’d like to start with in the app. An Activity is a core component of any Android application. Activities 
are typically associated with a visible screen. Most of the core functionality of an app is provided by 
an activity and its associated screen (called a layout). The choices of activity are limited by your choice 
of minimum SDK. If you had selected an SDK less than 15, a number of layouts would not be available. 
Select Empty Activity and click Next. We are doing a very basic application and want to demonstrate 
some basic concepts without Android Studio doing some of the work for us. 

You should see the Configure your project dialog window, as shown in Figure 3.1. Fill out the screen as shown except 
Save location, which will be unique to your computer. Click the picture of the folder after the 
location name and choose a location that fits your needs. If this is your own computer, where 
you will be doing most of your work, you can keep the default location. If not, you may want to 
change the location to a USB drive. The Name is displayed on the phone’s screen as the name of 
the app. You can use spaces if you want. 

As you type the name, the Package name and Location will be completed. There are no spaces allowed in these items. 
The wizard will remove them as you type. Don’t put them back in either of those fields. 
The Package name is important. For this initial project, you don’t need to change the default. 
However, if you are building an app for sale, in place of “example” you should put your company name. 
This name will be used as an identifier in the Play Store to link your apps to the services they use (such as Google Maps).