2.4.1.5 RGBA Image 
RGBA images are colored RGB images with an extra channel known as “alpha” that depicts the 
opacity of the RGB image. Opacity ranges from a value of 0% to 100% and is essentially a “see-
through” property. Opacity in physics depicts the amount of light that passes through an object. 
For instance, cellophane paper is transparent (100% opacity), frosted glass is translucent, and 
wood is opaque. The alpha channel in RGBA images tries to mimic this property.  An example of 
this is shown below. 
 
2.4.2 Image Processing Techniques 
Image processing can be used to improve the quality of an image, remove undesired objects from 
an image, or even create new images from scratch. For example, image processing can be used 
to remove the background from an image of a person, leaving only the subject in the foreground. 
Image processing is a vast and complex field, with many different algorithms and techniques that 
can be used to achieve different results. In this section, we will focus on some of the most 
common image processing tasks and how they are performed. 

2.4.2.1 Image Enhancement 
One of the most common image processing tasks is image enhancement or improving the quality 
of an image. It has crucial applications in Computer Vision tasks, Remote Sensing, and 
surveillance. One common approach is adjusting the image's contrast and brightness.  
Contrast is the difference in brightness between the lightest and darkest areas of an image. By 
increasing the contrast, the overall brightness of an image can be increased, making it easier to 
see. Brightness is the overall lightness or darkness of an image. By increasing the brightness, an 
image can be made lighter, making it easier to see. Both contrast and brightness can be adjusted 
automatically by most image editing software, or they can be adjusted manually. 
However, adjusting the contrast and brightness of an image is our elementary operation. 
Sometimes an image with perfect contrast and brightness, when upscaled, becomes blurry due 
to lower pixel per square inch (pixel density).  

To address this issue, a relatively new and much more advanced concept of Image Super-
Resolution is used, wherein a high-resolution image is obtained from its low-resolution 
counterpart(s). Deep Learning techniques are popularly used to accomplish this.