4.3.1 Proportional Control (P) 
This element takes some proportion of the current error value. The proportion is specified by a 
constant called the gain value, and a proportional response is represented by the letters Kp. As 
an example, Kp may be set to 0.25, which will compute a value of 25% of the error value. This is 
used to compute the corrective response to the process. Since it requires an error to generate 
the proportional response, there is no proportional part of the corrective response if there is no 
error. For example, when controlling a drone autonomously, increasing the P gain Kp typically 

leads to shorter rise time (i.e. the drone reaches the required altitude quickly) and larger 
overshoots. Although it can decrease the system’s settling time, it can also lead the drone to 
display highly oscillatory or unstable behaviour (Fig 4.3). 
 
Fig. 4.3 An example showing the effects of increasing Kp—shorter rise time but oscillatory 
behaviour increases. (No Integral and Derivative control)

4.3.2 Derivative Control (D) 
The derivative term is used to estimate the future trends of the error based on its current rate of 
change. It is used to add a dampening effect to the system such that the quicker the change rate, 
the greater the controlling or dampening effect. In that sense, increasing the D gain Kd typically 
leads to smaller overshoot and a better-damped behaviour. However, increasing Kd could lead to 
larger steady-state errors (Fig. 4.4). 

4.3.3 Integral Control (I) 
Element I takes all past error values and integrates them over time. The term integrates simply 
means to accumulate or add up. This results in the integral term growing until the error goes to 
zero. When the error is eliminated, the integral term will stop growing. If an error still exists after 
the application of proportional control, the integral term tries to eliminate the error by adding in 

its accumulated error value. This will result in the proportional effect diminishing as the error 
decreases, and the growing integral effect compensates for this. Increasing the I gain Ki leads to 
a reduction in the steady-state error (often elimination) but also could lead to larger oscillations 
(Fig.4.5).

Fig. 4.4 An example showing the effects of increasing Kd with a constant Kp (No Integral control) 
 
Another issue to be mindful of when using the integral term in a controller refers to Integral 
windup. This is common in most physical systems (nonlinear systems), where a significant change 
in the setpoint (either positive or negative) results in the integral term accumulating significant 
errors that cannot be offset by errors in the opposite direction leading to a loss of control. 
Researchers have developed several anti-windup techniques over the years to counter the 
phenomenon. One common technique is setting boundaries for the integral term depending on 
the known system limitations, such as actuator operational range.

Fig. 4.5  An example showing the effects of increasing Ki with a constant Kp and Kd 