2.3.1 How Does LiDAR Work and How Does It Provide Solutions? 

Essentially, LiDAR is a ranging device which measures the distance to a target. The distance is 
measured by sending a short laser pulse and recording the time lapse between the outgoing light 
pulse and the detection of the reflected (back-scattered) light pulse.  
Figure 11: LiDAR Operating Principle - Pulse Transit Time Distance Calculation 
 
A LiDAR system may use a scan mirror, multiple laser beams, or other means to "scan" the object 
space. With the ability to provide accurate measurements of distances, LiDAR can be used to solve 
many different problems. 

In remote sensing, LiDAR systems are used to measure scatter, absorption, or re-emission from 
particles or molecules in the atmosphere. For these purposes, the systems may have specific 
requirements on the wavelength of the laser beams.  The concentration of a specific molecular 
species in the atmosphere, e.g. methane and the aerosol loading, can be measured. Rain droplets 
in the atmosphere can be measured to estimate the distance of a storm and the rain fall rate. 
Other LiDAR systems provide profiles of three-dimensional surfaces in the object space. In these 
systems, the probing laser beams are not tied to specific spectral features. Instead, the 
wavelength of the laser beams may be chosen to ensure eye safety or to avoid atmospheric 
spectral features. The probing beam encounters and is reflected by a "hard target" back to the 
LiDAR receiver. 

LiDAR can also be used to determine the velocity of a target. This can be done either through the 
Doppler technique or by measuring the distance to a target in rapid succession. For example, 
atmospheric wind velocity and the velocity of an automobile can be measured by a LiDAR system. 
In addition, LiDAR systems can be used to create a three-dimensional model of a dynamic scene, 
such as what may be encountered by an autonomous driving vehicle. This can be done in various 
ways, usually using a scanning technique.