As seen, the distance between the nodes with bidirectional search is inf. This implies there’s an 
infinite number of ways to move from node A – F using bidirectional search.  
 
The performance comparison is as follows: 
 
The optimised implementation of the algorithm compares both the single-target and bidirectional 
implementations of the algorithm. As expected, the single-target search performs better than the 
bidirectional search on a small grid; however, as soon as the grid expands, the bidirectional search 
performs better. This can be useful even in real-life situations where the goal is to find the shortest 
path (distance) between two objects.  

3.4  A* Algorithm 
A* (pronounced "A-star") is an informed search algorithm widely used in pathfinding and graph 
traversal, especially in fields like artificial intelligence, robotics, and game development. It 
efficiently finds the shortest path from a start node to a goal node by combining the advantages 
of Dijkstra’s algorithm and greedy best-first search. At its core, A* uses a cost function to prioritize 
which paths to explore. The algorithm maintains an open list of nodes to explore, always selecting 
the node with the lowest f-score 𝑓(𝑛) first. For each node 𝑛 it calculates: 
𝑓(𝑛) = 𝑔(𝑛) + ℎ(𝑛) 
Where: 
𝑔(𝑛): the actual cost of the path from the start node to 𝑛 

ℎ(𝑛): the estimated cost (heuristic) from node 𝑛 to the goal 
The function 𝑓(𝑛) (sometimes referred to as f-score) represents the total estimated cost of the 
cheapest solutions that goes through node 𝑛. A* choose to expand the node with the lowest 𝑓(𝑛) 
value (lowest total estimated cost). A* is guaranteed to find the optimal path (a path with the 
least cost) and therefore its optimal only if the heuristic function ℎ(𝑛) never overestimates the 
true cost to reach the goal. Because it focuses on optimality, this means a solution will be found 
if it exists provided the branching factor is infinite and each step has a minimum cost. Since it 
leverages Dijkstra’s algorithm, A* typically explores fewer nodes, making it more efficient, 
however that is dependent on the quality of heuristics. This means, a well-designed heuristic can 
drastically reduce the number of nodes the algorithm needs to evaluate. The most common 
heuristics are:  

• Manhattan Distance (used in grid-based maps where movement is restricted to horizontal 
and vertical directions), 
• Euclidean Distance (used when diagonal movement is allowed), 
• Domain-specific heuristics tailored to the problem at hand. 
This means that A* usage is suitable when the following conditions are true: 
• You have a specific goal and good heuristic  
• Optimality is important  
• Graph is not too large for memory constraints 