4.1.11 Using Java Web Server  
Sun's Java Web Server (JWS) is a full featured product. For servlet developers, a nice feature is its ability 
to detect when a servlet has been updated. It detects when new class files have been copied to the 
appropriate servlet directory and, if necessary, automatically reloads any running servlets.   
The JWS can be installed as a service under Windows NT. While this makes it convenient for running a 
production server, it is not recommended for servlet development work. Under Windows 95, there are 
no OS services, so the command line start-up is your only option. To run JWS from the 
c:\JavaWebServer1.1\bin directory, type in the httpd command. This starts the server in a console 
window. No further display is shown in the console unless a servlet executes a System.out.println() 
statement.  Servlets are installed by moving them to the c:\JavaWebServer1.1\servlets directory. As 
mentioned, JWS detects when servlets have been added to this directory. Although you can use the JWS 
management applet to tailor the servlet installation, this is generally not advised except for production 
server installations.  To shut down the JWS, press <Control>+C in the command window. The server prints 
a message to the console when it has finished shutting down.   
  
4.1.12 Servlet API  
The Java Servlet API defines the interface between servlets and servers. This API is packaged as a standard 
extension to the JDK under javax:   
• Package javax.servlet   
• Package javax.servlet.http   
The API provides support in four categories:   
• Servlet life cycle management   
• Access to servlet context   
• Utility classes   
• HTTP-specific support classes   

4.1.13 The Servlet Life Cycle  
Servlets run on the web server platform as part of the same process as the web server itself. The web 
server is responsible for initializing, invoking, and destroying each servlet instance. A web server 
communicates with a servlet through a simple interface, javax.servlet.Servlet. This interface consists of 
three main methods:   
 init()   service()   destroy()   
and two ancillary methods:   
 getServletConfig()   
getServletInfo()   

You may notice a similarity between this interface and that of Java applets. This is by design! Servlets are 
to web servers what applets are to web browsers.An applet runs in a web browser, performing actions it 
requests through a specific interface. A servlet does the same, running in the web server.