TOPIC 2  
 
2.1 BASICS OF NETWORKING  
  
When two or more computers want to communicate with each other to share data or resources then the 
communications among them can be done through networking.  
  
2.1.1 Overview of socket  
A Socket is a handle to a communication link with another application over the network. In other words a 
socket is a software interface that connects an application to the network. Sockets are often used in 
client/server applications. A centralized service waits for various remote machines to request specific 
resources, handling each request as it arrives. In order that clients know how to communicate with the 
server, standard application protocols are assigned well known ports. 

2.1.2 Overview of Client / Server  
You might be aware of the term Client/Server mentioned in the context of networking. A client is an entity 
that relies on another entity to accomplish some task. A server is an entity whose sole purpose is to serve 
clients by providing them with some kind of well-defined services such as searching a database or 
accepting mail messages. The interaction between client and server is just like the interaction between a 
lamp and an electrical socket. The power grid of the house is the server and the lamp is the power client. 
The server is a permanently available resource whereas the client is free to unplug after it has been served. 
The notion of a socket allows a single computer to serve many different clients at once, as well as serving 
many different types of information. This is managed by the introduction of a port, which is a numbered 
socket on a particular machine. A server process can listen to a port number, although each session is 
unique. A session process must be multithreaded to manage multiple client connections.  
  
2.1.3 Reserved Sockets  
TCP/IP has 65,536 different TCP ports (or sockets) to which every machine can talk.  
  
Table 2.1 defines the standard TCP ports as follows:  
   
Table 2.1  
  
2.1.4 Proxy server  
A proxy server speaks the client side of a protocol to another server. This is often required when clients 
have certain restrictions on which servers they can connect to. Thus a client would connect to a proxy 
server which did not have such restrictions and the proxy server would in turn communicate for the client. 
A proxy server has the additional ability to filter certain requests or cache the results of those requests for 
future use. A caching proxy HTTP server can help reduce the bandwidth demands on a local network’s 
connection to the Internet. 
  