4.3.1 Security Issues  
As with Java applets, Java servlets have security issues to worry about, too.   
  
a) The Servlet Sandbox  
A servlet can originate from several sources. A webmaster may have written it; a user may have written 
it; it may have been bought as part of a third-party package or downloaded from another web site.  Based 
on the source of the servlet, a certain level of trust should be associated with that servlet. Some web 
servers provide a means to associate different levels of trust with different servlets. This concept is similar 
to how web browsers control applets, and is known as "sandboxing".   
A servlet sandbox is an area where servlets are given restricted authority on the server. They may not 
have access to the file system or network, or they may have been granted a more trusted status. It is up 
to the web server administrator to decide which servlets are granted this status. Note that a fully trusted 
servlet has full access to the server's file system and networking capabilities. It could even perform a 
System.exit(), stopping the web server...   
  
b) Access Control Lists (ACLs)  
Many web servers allow you to restrict access to certain web pages and servlets via access control lists 
(ACLs). An ACL is a list of users who are allowed to perform a specific function in the server. The list 
specifies:   
• What kind of access is allowed   
• What object the access applies to   
• Which users are granted access   

Each web server has its own means of specifying an ACL, but in general, a list of users is registered on the 
server, and those user names are used in an ACL. Some servers also allow you to add users to logical 
groups, so you can grant access to a group of users without specifying all of them explicitly in the ACL.    
ACLs are extremely important, as some servlets can present or modify sensitive data and should be tightly 
controlled, while others only present public knowledge and do not need to be controlled.   
  
c) Threading Issues  
A web server can call a servlet's service() method for several requests at once. This brings up the issue of 
thread safety in servlets.  But first consider what you do not need to worry about: a servlet's init() method. 
The init() method will only be called once for the duration of the time that a servlet is loaded. The web 
server calls init() when loading, and will not call it again unless the servlet has been unloaded and reloaded. 
In addition, the service() method or destroy() method will not be called until the init() method has 
completed its processing.   
  
Things get more interesting when you consider the service() method. The service() method can be called 
by the web server for multiple clients at the same time. (With the JSDK 2.0, you can tag a servlet with the 
SingleThreadModel interface. This results in each call to service() being handled serially. Shared resources, 
such as files and databases, can still have concurrency issues to handle.)   
If your service() method uses outside resources, such as instance data from the servlet object, files, or 
databases, you need to carefully examine what might happen if multiple calls are made to service() at the 
same time. For example, suppose you had defined a counter in your servlet class that keeps track of how 
many service() method invocations are currently running:   
  private int counter = 0;  