4.1.1 Architectural Roles for Servlets  
Because of their power and flexibility, servlets can play a significant role in a system architecture. They 
can perform the application processing assigned to the middle tier, act as a proxy for a client, and even 
augment the features of the middle tier by adding support for new protocols or other features. A middle 
tier acts as the application server in so called three-tier client/server systems, positioning itself between 
a lightweight client like a web browser and a data source.   
  
4.1.2 Middle-Tier Process  
In many systems a middle tier serves as a link between clients and back-end services. By using a middle 
tier a lot of processing can be off-loaded from both clients (making them lighter and faster) and servers 
(allowing them to focus on their mission).   
One advantage of middle tier processing is simply connection management. A set of servlets could handle 
connections with hundreds of clients, if not thousands, while recycling a pool of expensive connections to 
database servers.  
 
Other middle tier roles include:   

• Business rule enforcement   
• Transaction management   
• Mapping clients to a redundant set of servers   
• Supporting different types of clients such as pure HTML and Java capable clients   
  
4.1.3 Proxy Servers  
When used to support applets, servlets can act as their proxies. This can be important because Java 
security allows applets only to make connections back to the server from which they were loaded. If an 
applet needs to connect to a database server located on a different machine, a servlet can make this 
connection on behalf of the applet.   
  
4.1.4 Protocol Support  
The Servlet API provides a tight link between a server and servlets. This allows servlets to add new protocol 
support to a server. (You will see how HTTP support is provided for you in the API packages.) Essentially, 
any protocol that follows a request/response computing model can be implemented by a servlet. This 
could include: 
  
• SMTP   
• POP   
• FTP  
 
Servlet support is currently available in several web servers, and will probably start appearing in other 
types of application servers in the near future. You will use a web server to host the servlets in this class 
and only deal with the HTTP protocol. Because HTTP is one of the most common protocols, and because 
HTML can provide such a rich presentation of information, servlets probably contribute the most to 
building HTTP based systems.   