4.1.7 Replacing CGI Scripts  
An HTTP servlet is a direct replacement for Common Gateway Interface (CGI) scripts. HTTP servlets are 
accessed by the user entering a URL in a browser or as the target of an HTML form action. For example, if 
a user enters the following URL into a browser address field, the browser requests a servlet to send an 
HTML page with the current time: http://localhost/servlet/DateTimeServlet The DateTimeServlet 
responds to this request by sending an HTML page to the browser.    
Note that these servlets are not restricted to generating web pages; they can perform any other function, 
such as storing and fetching database information, or opening a socket to another machine.   
  
4.1.8 Installing Servlets  
Servlets are not run in the same sense as applets and applications. Servlets provide functionality that 
extends a server. In order to test a servlet, two steps are required:   Install the servlet in a hosting server   
 Request a servlet's service via a client request   
There are many web servers that support servlets. It is beyond the scope of this course to cover the 
different ways to install servlets in each server. This course examines the JSDK's servletrunner utility and 
the JWS.   
  
4.1.9 Temporary versus Permanent Servlets  
Servlets can be started and stopped for each client request, or they can be started as the web server is 
started and kept alive until the server is shut down. Temporary servlets are loaded on demand and offer 
a good way to conserve resources in the server for less-used functions. Permanent servlets are loaded 
when the server is started, and live until the server is shutdown. Servlets are installed as permanent 
extensions to a server when their start-up costs are very high (such as establishing a connection with a 
DBMS), when they offer permanent server-side functionality (such as an RMI service), or when they must 
respond as fast as possible to client requests.  There is no special code necessary to make a servlet 
temporary or permanent; this is a function of the server configuration. Because servlets can be loaded 
when a web server starts, they can use this auto-loading mechanism to provide easier loading of 
serverside Java programs. These programs can then provide functionality that is totally unique and 
independent of the web server. For example, a servlet could provide R-based services (rlogin, rsh, ...) 
through TCP/IP ports while using the servlet request/response protocol to present and process HTML 
pages used to manage the servlet. 