4.1.18 Utility Classes  

There are several utilities provided in the Servlet API. The first is the interface 
javax.servlet.SingleThreadModel that can make it easier to write simple servlets. If a servlet implements 
this marker interface, the hosting server knows that it should never call the servlet's service() method 
while it is processing a request. That is, the server processes all service requests within a single thread. 
While this makes it easier to write a servlet, this can impede performance. A full discussion of this issue is 
located later in this course.   
Two exception classes are included in the Servlet API. The exception javax.servlet.ServletException can be 
used when there is a general failure in the servlet. This notifies the hosting server that there is a problem. 
The exception javax.servlet.UnavailableException indicates that a servlet is unavailable. Servlets can 
report this exception at any time. There are two types of unavailability:   
Permanent. The servlet is unable to function until an administrator takes some action. In this state, a 
servlet should write a log entry with a problem report and possible resolutions.   
Temporary. The servlet encountered a (potentially) temporary problem, such as a full disk, failed server, 
etc. The problem can correct itself with time or may require operator intervention.   
  
4.1.19 HTTP Support  
Servlets that use the HTTP protocol are very common. It should not be a surprise that there is specific help 
for servlet developers who write them. Support for handling the HTTP protocol is provided in the package 
javax.servlet.http. Before looking at this package, take a look at the HTTP protocol itself.  HTTP stands for 
the HyperText Transfer Protocol. It defines a protocol used by web browsers and servers to communicate 
with each other. The protocol defines a set of text-based request messages called HTTP methods. (Note: 
The HTTP specification calls these HTTP methods; do not confuse this term with Java methods. Think of 
HTTP methods as messages requesting a certain type of response). The HTTP methods include:   
• GET   
• HEAD   
• POST   
• PUT   
• DELETE   
• TRACE   
• CONNECT   OPTIONS   

For this course, you will only need to look at only three of these methods: GET, HEAD, and POST.