4.1.25 Generating Inline Content  
Sometimes a web page needs only a small piece of information that is customized at runtime. The 
remainder of a page can be static information. To substitute only small amounts of information, some 
web servers support a concept known as server-side includes, or SSI.   
If it supports SSI, the web server designates a special file extension (usually .shtml) which tells the server 
that it should look for SSI tags in the requested file. The JWS defines a special SSI tag called the <servlet> 
tag, for example:   
  
  <servlet code="DatePrintServlet">  
    <param name=timezone value=pst>  
</servlet>  
  
This tag causes the invoking of a servlet named DatePrintServlet to generate some in-line content.  SSI 
and servlets allow an HTML page designer to write a skeleton for a page, using servlets to fill in sections 
of it, rather than require the servlet to generate the entire page. This is very useful for features like page-
hit counters and other small pieces of functionality.   
The DatePrintServlet servlet works just like a regular servlet except that it is designed to provide a very 
small response and not a complete HTML page. The output MIME type gets set to "text/plain" and not 
"text/html". Keep in mind that the syntax of server-side includes, if they are even supported, may vary 
greatly from one web server to another.  In the following Magercise you create the DatePrintServlet and 
see how to use it in an HTML page. 

4.1.26 Processing HTTP Post Requests  
HTTP POST method processing differs from HTTP GET method processing in several ways. First, because 
POST is expected to modify data on the server, there can be a need to safely handle updates coming from 
multiple clients at the same time. Second, because the size of the information stream sent by the client 
can be very large, the doPost() method must open an InputStream (or Reader) from the client to get any 
of the information. HTTP POST does not support sending parameters encoded inside of the URL as does 
the HTTP GET method. The problem of supporting simultaneous updates from multiple clients has been 
solved by database systems (DBMSs); unfortunately the HTTP protocol does not work well with database 
systems. This is because DBMSs need to maintain a persistent connection between a client and the DBMS 
to determine which client is trying to update the data. The HTTP protocol does not support this type of a 
connection as it is a message based, stateless protocol. Solving this problem is not easy and never elegant! 
Fortunately, the Servlet API defines a means to track client/server sessions. This is covered in the 
Maintaining Session Information section later in this course. Without session management tracking, one 
can resort to several different strategies. They all involve writing data to the client in hidden fields which 
is then sent back to the server. The simplest way to handle updates is to use an optimistic locking scheme 
based on date/time stamps. One can use a single date/time stamp for a whole form of data, or one could 
use separate date/time stamps for each "row" of information. Once the update strategy has been 
selected, capturing the data sent to the server via an HTTP POST method is straightforward. Information 
from the HTML form is sent as a series of parameters (name/value pairs) in the InputStream object. The 
HttpUtils class contains a method parsePostData() that accepts the raw InputStream from the client and 
return a Hashtable with the parameter information already processed. A really nice feature is that if a 
parameter of a given name has multiple values (such is the case for a column name with multiple rows), 
then this information can be retrieved from the Hashtable as an array of type String. In the following 
Magercise, you will be given skeleton code that implements a pair of servlets that display data in a browser 
as an editable HTML form. The structure of the data is kept separate from the actual data. This makes it 
easy to modify this code to run against arbitrary tables from a JDBC-connected database. 