4.3.1 USING THE OVERRIDE KEYWORD 
The override keyword allows a method to provide a new implementation of a method 
inherited from a base class. When you override a method, the signature of the methods must 
match. To override a base method, the base method must be defined as virtual, abstract, or 
override. The example above illustrate the method signature of the virtual method in the base 
class and the overridden method in the child class 
 
In C#, the "virtual" keyword is used to mark a method, property, indexer, or event in a base 
class as eligible to be overridden by derived (child) classes, allowing for polymorphism here 
the most specific implementation of the method is called at runtime based on the object's 
actual type; essentially, it provides a default behavior that can be customized in inheriting 
classes using the "override" keyword.  
 
4.4 Abstract Classes 
Every subclass of Window should implement its own DrawWindow ( ) method but nothing 
requires that it do so. To require subclasses to implement a method of their base, you need 
to designate that method as abstract. An abstract method has no implementation. It creates 
a method name and signature that must be implemented in all derived classes. Furthermore, 
making one or more methods of any class abstract has the side effect of making the class 
abstract.  
 
Abstract classes establish a base for derived classes, but it is not legal to instantiate an object 
of an abstract class. Once you declare a method to be abstract, you prohibit the creation of 
any instances of that class. Thus, if you were to designate DrawWindow ( ) as abstract in the 
Window class, you could derive from Window, but you could not create any Window objects. 
Each derived class would have to implement DrawWindow ( ). If the derived class failed 
to implement the abstract method, that class would also be abstract, and again no instances 
would be possible. Designating a method as abstract is accomplished by placing the keyword 
abstract at the beginning of the method definition, as follows: 
abstract public void DrawWindow( ); 
(Because the method can have no implementation, there are no braces; only a semicolon.) If 
one or more methods are abstract, the class definition must also be marked abstract, as in 
the following: 
 
abstract public class Window 