7.2.1 Using Delegates to Specify Methods at Runtime 

Delegates specify the kinds of methods that can handle events and implement callbacks in 
your applications. They can also specify static and instance methods that won't be known 
until runtime. 
 
Suppose, for example, that you want to create a simple container class called a Pair that can 
hold and sort any two objects passed to it. You can't know in advance what kind of objects a 
Pair will hold, but by creating methods within those objects to which the sorting task can be 
delegated, you can delegate responsibility for determining their order to the objects 
themselves. 
 
Different objects will sort differently; for example, a Pair of counter objects might sort in 
numeric order, while a Pair of Buttons might sort alphabetically by their name. As the 
author of the Pair class, you want the objects in the pair to have the responsibility of 
knowing which should be first and which should be second. To accomplish this, insist that 
the objects to be stored in the Pair provide a method that tells you how to sort the objects.  
 
Define the method you require by creating a delegate that defines the signature and return 
type of the method the object (e.g., Button) must provide to allow the Pair to determine 
which object should be first and which should be second.  
 
The Pair class defines a delegate, WhichIsFirst . The Sort method will take a parameter, an 
instance of WhichIsFirst . When the Pair needs to know how to order its objects it will 
invoke the delegate passing in its two objects as parameters. The responsibility for deciding 
which of the two objects comes first is delegated to the method encapsulated by the 
delegate. 
 
To test the delegate, create two classes: a Dog class and a Student class. Dogs and Students 
have little in common, except they both implement methods that can be encapsulated by 
Which ComesFirst; thus both Dog objects and Student objects are eligible to be held within 
Pair objects. 
 
In the test program, create a couple of Students and a couple of Dogs, and store them each 
in a Pair. You will then create delegate objects to encapsulate their respective methods that 
match the delegate signature and return type, and ask the Pair objects to sort the Dog and 
Student objects. Let's take this step by step. Begin by creating a Pair constructor that takes 
two objects and stashes them away in a private array: 

Example 7-1 Delegates 