4.2 Access modifiers 
 
All types and type members have an accessibility level. The accessibility level controls whether 
they can be used from other code in your assembly or other assemblies. an assembly is 
a .dll or .exe created by compiling one or more .cs files in a single compilation. Use the 
following access modifiers to specify the accessibility of a type or member when you declare 
it: 

• public: Code in any assembly can access this type or member. The accessibility level 
of the containing type controls the accessibility level of public members of the type. 
• private: Only code declared in the same class or struct can access this member. 

Note
Don’t confuse the terms class and object. A class is the definition of a type. An object is an instance 
of that type created when the program runs. Several different objects can be instances of the same 
class. 
  
Note
The var keyword in C# is a type inference feature that tells the compiler to determine the type of a 
variable based on the value assigned to it: 

• protected: Only code in the same class or in a derived class can access this type or 
member. 
• internal: Only code in the same assembly can access this type or member. 
• protected internal: Only code in the same assembly or in a derived class in another 
assembly can access this type or member. 
• private protected: Only code in the same assembly and in the same class or a derived 
class can access the type or member.

In C#, the default access modifier for top-level classes and structs (not nested within other 
classes) is "internal"; meaning if you don't explicitly specify an access modifier, members will 
be accessible only within the same assembly. Normally, the data members are defined to have 
a private access. This enables the class to protect the data and allow access to the data only 
through the class member methods or properties. 
 
Example 3-3 Access Modifiers 
public class Student 
{ 
private string studentNumber; 
protected internal string studentLastName; 
private protected string studentFirstName; 
int score1; 
public int score2; 
protected int score3; 
internal string major; 
}