4.5 Sealed Class 
The obverse side of the design coin from abstract is sealed. Although an abstract class is 
intended to be derived from and to provide a template for its subclasses to follow, a sealed 
class does not allow classes to derive from it at all. Placed before the class declaration, the 
sealed keyword precludes derivation. Classes are most often marked sealed to prevent 
accidental inheritance. If the declaration of Window in Example 4-7 is changed from abstract 
to sealed (eliminating the abstract keyword from the DrawWindow ( ) declaration as well), 
the program will fail to compile. If you try to build this project, the compiler will return the 
following error message: 
'ListBox' cannot inherit from sealed class 'Window' 
among many other complaints (such as that you cannot create a new protected member in a 
sealed class). 

4.6 Interfaces 
You can think of an interface as a class that is totally abstract. Interfaces contain no 
implementation details for any of their members; all their members are considered abstract. 
Even more of a contract is required to use an interface than was required for the abstract 
method. By implementing the interface, the class agrees to define details for all of the 
interface’s methods. 
 
One advantage of using interfaces is the fact that a class can implement any number of 
interfaces. But, you can only inherit from one class, abstract, or nonabstract. An interface may 
even implement multiple interfaces itself. The syntax for defining an interface is as follows: 
[modifier] interface InterfaceIdentifier 
{ 
// Members - no access modifiers are used. 
} 
The members of an interface can be methods, properties, or events. No implementation 
details are provided by the interface for any of its members. The definition of the interface 
simply specifies a signature for the members that must be supplied by classes implementing 
it. Interfaces are usually named using an uppercase I as the first character, such as 
IComparable, ISearchable, or IPayable. 
 