2.5 BUILDING A WEB SITE DEVELOPMENT TEAM 
Although one person can maintain small Web sites, larger sites require a group of 
personnel filling a variety of roles. The line can be blurred between the roles, and of 
course, many aspects of site design require more than one head to solve a problem. 
The following roles are examples of the types of talent necessary to build a larger, 
well-conceived site.
 
 Server administrators - Get to know and appreciate the technical people that run 
your Web server. They take care of the sticky technical issues like firewalls, modem 
ports, internal security, file administration, and back-up procedures. Consult with 
them to determine your Web site’s default filename and directory structure. They also 
can generate reports that will tell you how many visitors your site is attracting, where 
the visitors are coming from, and what pages they like best.
 HTML coders - These are the people responsible for creating the HTML code and 
troubleshooting the site. Most HTML coders now are using HTML editors to create 
code, but any self-respecting HTML coder knows how to open the HTML file in a text 
editor and code by hand. The coders also are responsible for testing and evaluating 
the site across different operating systems and Web browsers.
 Designers - Designers are the graphic artists responsible for the look of the site. 
They will use design software, such as Adobe PhotoShop, the industry standard 
graphic design program. Designers contribute to the page template design, navigation 
icons, color scheme, and logos. If your site uses photographic content, the designers 
will be called upon to prepare the photos for online display.
 Writers and Information designers - Writers prepare content for online display, which 
includes designing hypertext information and navigation paths. Additionally, writers 
should be responsible for creating a site style guide and typographic conventions. The 
writers are responsible for consistency, grammar, spelling, and tone. They also work 
closely with the designers to develop the page templates.
 Software programmers - Programmers write the programs you need to build 
interaction into your site. They may write a variety of applications, including Common 
Gateway Interface (CGI) scripts, Java scripts, and back-end applications that interact with a database. Commerce sites will especially need the talents of a programming 
staff. 
 Database administrators - The people who are responsible for maintaining the 
databases play an important role in commercial Web sites. They make sure that your 
data are accessible and safe.
 Marketing - The marketing department can generate content and provide exposure 
for the site.
