Absolute Units 
Absolute units are units that are fixed in size regardless of the output device and are usually 
used only with printed media. They are specified in one of five standard units of measurement: 
mm (millimeters), cm (centimeters), in (inches), pt (points), and pc (picas). For example, to set 
the font size of your page body text to a 12pt font, you would apply the following style rule: 
 
body {font-size: 12pt;} 
 
Controlling Spacing and Indentation 
CSS supports styles to control some basic typographic attributes, such as kerning, tracking, and 
leading. Kerning measures the amount of space between characters, while tracking measures 
the amount of space between words. The properties to control an element’s kerning and 
tracking are 
 
letter-spacing: value; 
word-spacing: value; 
 
where value is the size of space between individual letters or words. You specify these sizes 
with the same units that you use for font sizing. The default value for both kerning and tracking 
is 0 pixels. A positive value increases the letter and word spacing, while a negative value 
reduces the space between letters and words. If you choose to make your text scalable under 
a variety of devices and resolutions, you can express kerning 
and tracking values as percentages or em units. Leading measures the amount of space 
between lines of text and is set using the following line-height property 
line-height: size; 
 
where size is a value or a percentage of the font size of the text on the affected lines.  If no unit 
is specified, the size value represents the ratio of the line height to the font size. The default 
value is 1.2 or 1.2em so that the line height is 20% larger than the font size. By contrast, the 
following style sets the line height to twice the font size, making the text appear double-
spaced: 
line-height: 2em; 
 
An additional way to control text spacing is to set the indentation for the first line of a text 
block by using the following text-indent property 
 
text-indent: size; 
 
Where size is expressed in absolute or relative units, or as a percentage of the width of the text 
block. For example, an indentation value of 5% indents the first line by 5% of the width of the 
block. The indentation value also can be negative, extending the first line to the left of the text 
block to create a hanging indent. 
Alison suggests you increase the kerning used in the h1 and h2 headings to 0.1em so that the 
letters don’t crowd each other on the page. She also asks that you increase the line height of 
the text.