2.3 XML AND XHTML 
 
With the Extensible Markup Language (XML), the W3C has a chance to start from scratch 
in defining a standard markup language, instead of playing catch-up, as it had to do with 
HTML. XML is also a subset of SGML. Unlike HTML, XML is a meta-language, not a language 
itself, but a language that lets you describe other languages. As a meta-language, XML 
allows you to create your own elements to meet your information needs, which 
significantly distinguishes it from the predefined elements of HTML. XML provides a 
format for describing structured data that can be shared by multiple applications across 
multiple platforms. 

Features of XML 
Some of the features of XML that makes it a very useful language are: 
 XML describes data: The power of data representation in XML comes from separating 
display and style from the structure of data. XML elements describe data and structure 
only and not presentation. Where HTML contains elements that describe a word as bold 
or italic, XML declares an element to be a book title, item price, or product measurement. 
Once the data are structured in XML, they can be displayed across a variety of media, such 
as a computer display, television screen, or handheld device, using an associated style 
sheet that contains the appropriate display information. Currently, Cascading Style Sheets 
is the only complete style language for XML, though the W3C is working on the Extensible 
Style Language (XSL), which is derived from XML.
 XML allows better access to data: XML is valuable because it allows access to more 
meaningful searches for information, development of flexible applications, multiple 
views of data, and is based on a non-proprietary standard that supports the open 
nature of the Web. People as wellas machines can read XML code. Some years fromnow, 
someone could open your XML file and understand what you meant by using <HEADLINE> 
and <PARAGRAPH> as markup elements. The cross-platform, independent nature of XML 
markup supports a variety of data applications migrating to the Web. XML lets you display 
data on many devices without changing the essential data descriptions.
 XML lends itself to customized information: XML is ideal for distributing complex, 
esoteric information among many users sharing the same types of knowledge. With 
the customized elements of XML, standards organizations for various industries and 
information types can enforce the use of markup constraints with all users. For 
example, chemists can have their own chemical markup language, and poets can have 
their own poetic markup language—ensuring that the content can be read and 
understood by anyone interested in their information type. Currently, XML still is under 
development. Many of the proposed features of XML, including XML linking and the 
Extensible Style Language, still are incomplete and supported differently by different 
vendors. Internet Explorer 5.0 is currently the only browser that supports XML, and its 
support is weak in some areas. Be careful with implementation of any XML project by 
testing your work thoroughly.
