The html selector in this code selects the entire HTML document so that any part of the browser 
window background that is not within the page body will be displayed using the HSL color (27, 
72%, 72%). Within the page body, Alison wants the h1 and h2 headings to be displayed in white 
text on dark and lighter orange colors using the RGB color values (222, 128, 60) and (235, 177, 
131) respectively. The style rules are 
 
Adding text and background colors 
 
Working with Fonts 

Typography is the art of designing the appearance of characters and letters on a page. So far, 
the only typographic style you’ve used is the color property to set the text color. For the rest 
of this session, you’ll explore other properties in the CSS family of typographical styles, 
starting with choosing the text font. 
 
Choosing a Font 
Text characters are based on fonts that define the style and appearance of each character in 
the alphabet. The default font used by most browsers for displaying text is Times New 
Roman, but you can specify a different font for any page element using the following font-
family property 

font-family: fonts; 
Where fonts is a comma-separated list, also known as a font stack, of specific or generic font 
names. A specific font is a font that is identified by name, such as Times New Roman or 
Helvetica, and based on a font definition file that is stored on the user’s computer or 
accessible on the web. A generic font describes the general appearance of the characters in 
the text but does not specify any particular font definition file. Instead,  the font definition 
file is selected by the browser to match the general characteristics of 
the generic font. CSS supports the following generic font groups: 

1. serif—a typeface in which a small ornamentation appears at the tail end of each 
character 
2. sans-serif—a typeface without any serif ornamentation. 
3. monospace—a typeface in which each character has the same width; often used to 
display programming code. 
4. cursive—a typeface that mimics handwriting with highly stylized elements and 
flourishes; best used in small doses for decorative page elements. 
5. fantasy—a highly ornamental typeface used for page decoration; should never be used 
as body text. 