Because you have no control over which font definition file the browser will choose for a 
generic font, the common practice is to list specific fonts first, in order of preference, and end 
the font stack with a generic font. If the browser cannot find any of the specific fonts listed, it 
uses a generic font of its own choosing. For example, the style  
 
font-family: 'Arial Black', Gadget, sans-serif; 
 
tells a browser to use the Arial Black font if available; if not, to look for the Gadget font; and if 
neither of those fonts are available, to use its generic sans-serif font. Note that font names 
containing one or more blank spaces (such as Arial Black) must be enclosed within single or 
double quotes. 
 
Because the available fonts vary by operating system and device, the challenge is to choose a 
font stack limited to web safe fonts, which are fonts that will be displayed in mostly the same 
way in all operating systems and on all devices.  
 
Specifying a font stack 
 
Exploring Web Fonts 
Because web safe fonts limit your choices to a select number of fonts that have universal 
support, another approach is to supply a web font in which the definition font is supplied to 
the browser in an external file. Figure 2-22 describes the different web font file formats and 
their current levels of browser support. The format most universally accepted in almost all 
current browsers and on almost all devices is the Web Open 
Font Format (WOFF). 

 The @font-face Rule 
To access and load a web font, you add the following @font-face rule to the style 
sheet 

@font-face { 
font-family: name; 
src: url('url1') format('text1'), 
url('url2') format('text2'), 
…; 
descriptor1: value1; 
descriptor2: value2; 
… 
} 
 
Setting the Font Size 
Another important consideration in typography is the text size, which is defined using the 
following font-size property  
font-size: size; 
 
Where size is a length in a CSS unit of measurement. Size values for any of these 
measurements can be whole numbers (0, 1, 2 ...) or decimals (0.5, 1.6, 3.9 ...). Lengths (and 
widths) in CSS are expressed in either absolute units or relative units.  