1.3 CONNECTING TO THE INTERNET 
In order to access or use web sites, the device (PC, Cellphone or tablet) must be 
connected to the internet. To connect to the internet, you will need the following: 

 A personal computer (or any other device) with a web browser. Microsoft’s 
Internet Explorer is one of the most comprehensive web browsers available. Many 
web browsers can be downloaded from the internet at no cost. 
 Access to a host computer—is to a computer connected to the Internet. The host 
computer might be maintained by your company or by a commercial Internet service 
provider (ISP). 
 A connection device –This device can be a modem or network cable. It allows your 
computer to send and receive packets or connect to a network. 

Internet host computers 
You access the Internet by using an Internet service provider to connect to an Internet host 
computer. A service provider supplies you with an Internet account that includes a user name and 
password that you use to access the host computer. 

There are three major types of Internet access: 

 Corporate network: If your company network is connected to thelog on to your corporate network; 
then you can connect to the Internet. If you are connecting from a remote location, you first need a 
phone line and modem to dial in to your corporate network. 
 Community network or free net: As part of the National Public 
Telecommuting Network (NPTN) organization, local communities provide Interne t 
access at public facilities such as a libraries or community centers. In this situation, 
you might be given a user account to log on at a walk-up terminal. 
 Commercial Internet service provider (ISP): You can purchase Internet 
connection time, an Internet account, and e-mail service from an ISP, such as 
EarthLink or AT&T WorldNet. The cost might include a one-time registration fee, a 
monthly fee, or charges based on how long you are connected. Online service 
providers, such America Online, not only give you access to the Internet, but also 
provide proprietary Web browsing software and content. 