EIGHT |  CSS STYLES AND COLORS 
 
Introducing CSS 
One of the important principles discussed in the previous tutorial was that HTML does not 
define how a document should be displayed; it only defines the document’s structure and 
content. The appearance of the page is determined by one or more style sheets written in the 
Cascading Style Sheets (CSS) language.  Starting with this tutorial, you’ll learn how to write your 
own CSS style sheets. 
 
The CSS specifications are maintained by the same World Wide Web Consortium (W3C) that 
defines the standards for HTML. As with HTML, the CSS language has gone through several 
versions, the latest of which is CSS Version 3, more commonly known as CSS3. CSS3 is not based 
on a single specification but rather is built upon several modules, where each module is focused 
on a separate design topic. At the time of this 
Writing, there were over 50 CSS3 modules with each module experiencing a different level of 
browser support. The W3C continues to expand the scope of the language, which means that 
many new design features are still at the stage where few, if any, browsers support them. 
 
In these tutorials, you’ll focus mostly on CSS features that have near-universal support among 
current browsers. However, you’ll also examine workarounds to support older browsers and 
study ways to accommodate the difference between browsers in how they implement CSS 
designs. 

Exploring Style Rules 
If the element tag is the building block of the HTML file, then the style rule, which defines the 

styles applied to an element or group of elements, is the building block of the CSS style sheet. 
Style rules have the general form. 
 
An embedded style sheet is simply adding the style sheet directly into the HTML5 script. In 
the <head> of the program, add the style sheet using the <style> container. Place the 
element you want to style in the style container, and then add values to the property to be 
styled. The Figure above  shows the general format. 
 
Each element has a unique set of properties, and each property has values that can be 
assigned to it. When you change the value of the property, that value appears in the text 
inside the element’s container. So, if you change the text color to red, all the text inside the 
element’s container will be red. 