6.7 Introducing Multimedia on the Web 

The original purpose of the web and HTML was to deliver textual information via 
interconnected hypertext documents. HTML was a perfect tool for academic researchers 
needing to share text and data. Once graphical capabilities were added to the HTML language, 
developers were free to create documents with images and arresting page layouts that opened 
up the web’s potential for commerce and business. The next major phase in the language was 
the introduction of multimedia support in the form of streaming audio, video, and interactive 
games, making the web a dominant entertainment platform. 
It is estimated that by 2023, online video will account for 80% of global Internet traffic, rising 
to 85% within the United States alone (Cisco Visual Networking Index: Forecast and 
Methodology, 2014–2019, May 2015). Thus, web developers need to consider how to best 
utilize multimedia in making their websites attractive to the public. One of the biggest 
challenges in delivering multimedia content is putting that content in a form that can be 
retrieved quickly and easily without loss of quality. 

Understanding Codecs and Containers 
 
To achieve fast and easy transmission of multimedia content, that content is stored using a 
codec, which is a computer program that encodes and decodes streams of data. Codecs 
compress data so that it can be transmitted in a fast and efficient manner and then decompress 
it when it is to be read or played back. The compression method can be either lossy or lossless. 
Using lossy compression, onessential data are removed in order to achieve a smaller file size. 
An audio file ight be compressed by removing sounds that the human ear can barely hear. A 
video file might be compressed by removing frames from the video playback. The more the file 
is compressed, the more content is lost. The sound from a highly compressed audio file can 
become muddy and indistinct. A highly compressed video clip can become blurry or jerky in its 
movements. Thus, one consideration in lossy compression is determining at what point 
essential data has been removed because, once that data is lost, it cannot be recovered. 

Using lossless compression, data is compressed by removing redundant 
information. For example, the following text string, consisting of 4 as followed by 5 
Bs, and then 6 Cs requires 15 characters of information: 
AAAABBBBBCCCCCC 
Yet, this content can be rewritten using the following 6 characters with no 
loss of 4A5B6C 
This same general technique can be applied to digital audio and video, which can 
contain long stretches of redundant sound and images. The disadvantage of lossless 
compression is that you cannot achieve the same level of compression as with lossy 
compression. Most codecs involve some combination of lossy and lossless 
techniques. Web developers can choose from dozens of different codecs to 
compress their multimedia content.

Codecs are placed within a container that handles the packaging, transportation, and 
presentation of the data. The container is essentially the file format, which is identified by a 
file extension. The web supports a multitude of container and codec combinations but not all 
containers and codecs are equally supported. For example, Google Chrome uses the WebM 
container for video content, compressing that data with the VP8 codec; however, that 
combination of container and codec is not supported by Internet Explorer or any Apple device, 
such as iPods or iPads. Thus, web developers have to account for browser support before 
making any multimedia content available to the user. 