• The variable receiving the value returned by a method (such as vol, in this case) must also 
be compatible with the return type specified for the method. 
 One more point: The 
preceding program can be written a bit more efficiently because there is actually no need 
for the vol variable. The call to volume( ) could have been used in the println( ) statement 
directly, as shown here:   
   
System.out.println("Volume is " + box1.volume());   
In this case, when println( ) is executed, mybox1.volume( ) will be called automatically and its value 
will be passed to println( ).   
Adding a Method That Takes Parameters    
While some methods don’t need parameters, most do. Parameters allow a method to be 
generalized. That is, a parameterized method can operate on a variety of data and/or be used in a 
number of slightly different situations. To illustrate this point, let’s use a very simple example. Here 
is a method that returns the square of the number 10:    
int square()   
{  return 10 * 
10;   
} 

While this method does, indeed, return the value of 10 squared, its use is very limited. However, if 
you modify the method so that it takes a parameter, as shown next, then you can make square( ) 
much more useful.   
  int square(int i)   
     
{   
return i * i;   
}   
   
Now, square( ) will return the square of whatever value it is called with. That is, square( ) is now a 
general-purpose method that can compute the square of any integer value, rather than just 10.    
Here is an example:   
   
int x, y;   
x = square(5); // x equals 25 
x = square(9); // x equals 81 
y = 2;   
x = square(y); // x equals 4   
   
In the first call to square( ), the value 5 will be passed into parameter i. In the second call, i will 
receive the value 9. The third invocation passes the value of y, which is 2 in this example. As these 
examples show, square( ) is able to return the square of whatever data it is passed. It is important 
to keep the two terms parameter and argument straight. A parameter is a variable defined by a 
method that receives a value when the method is called. For example, in square( ), i is a parameter. 
An argument is a value that is passed to a method when it is invoked. For example, square(100) 
passes 100 as an argument.