Adding a Method to the Box Class 
   
Although it is perfectly fine to create a class that contains only data, it rarely happens. Most of the 
time you will use methods to access the instance variables defined by the class. In fact, methods 
define the interface to most classes. This allows the class implementor to hide the specific layout of 
internal data structures behind cleaner method abstractions. In addition to defining methods that 
provide access to data, you can also define methods that are used internally by the class itself. Let’s 
begin by adding a method to the Box class. It may have occurred to you while looking at the 
preceding programs that the computation of a box’s volume was something that was best handled 
by the Box class rather than the BoxDemo class. After all, since the volume of a box is dependent 
upon the size of the box, it makes sense to have the Box class compute it. To do this, you must add 
a method to Box, as shown here:   
   
// This program includes a method inside the 
box  class. class Box { double width; double height;    
 
double depth;   
// display volume of a box 
void volume() {   
System.out.print("Volume is ");   
System.out.println(width * height * depth);   
}      
}   
   
class BoxDemo3 {   
public static void main(String args[]) { Box 
mybox1 = new Box();   
   
Box mybox2 = new Box();   
// assign values to mybox1's instance  
variables mybox1.width = 10; mybox1.height  
= 20;   
   
mybox1.depth = 15;   
/* assign different values to 
mybox2's instance variables */ 
mybox2.width = 3; mybox2.height  
=   
6; mybox2.depth = 9;   
   
// display volume of first 
box mybox1.volume();  // 
display volume of second  
box mybox2.volume();   
}   
}   
   
This program generates the following output, which is the same as the previous version.   

Volume is 3000.0   
Volume is 162.0   
 
 
   
Look closely at the following two lines of code:    
mybox1.volume(); 
mybox2.volume();   
   
The first line here invokes the volume( ) method on mybox1. That is, it calls volume( ) relative to the 
mybox1 object, using the object’s name followed by the dot operator. Thus, the call to 
mybox1.volume( ) displays the volume of the box defined by mybox1, and the call to 
mybox2.volume( ) displays the volume of the box defined by mybox2. Each time volume( ) is invoked, 
it displays the volume for the specified box. If you are unfamiliar with the concept of calling a 
method, the following discussion will help clear things up. When   
mybox1.volume( ) is executed, the Java run-time system transfers control to the code defined  
inside volume( ). After the statements inside volume( ) have executed, control is returned to the 
calling routine, and execution resumes with the line of code following the call. In the most general 
sense, a method is Java’s way of implementing subroutines. 
 
There is something very important to notice inside the volume( ) method: the instance variables 
width, height, and depth are referred to directly, without preceding them with an object name or 
the dot operator. When a method uses an instance variable that is defined by its class, it does so 
directly, without explicit reference to an object and without use of the dot operator. This is easy to 
understand if you think about it. A method is always invoked relative to some object of its class. 
Once this invocation has occurred, the object is known. Thus, within a method, there is no need to 
specify the object a second time. This means that width, height, and depth inside volume( ) implicitly 
refer to the copies of those variables found in the object that invokes volume( ). Let’s review: When 
an instance variable is accessed by code that is not part of the class in which that instance variable 
is defined, it must be done through an object, by use of the dot operator. However, when an instance 
variable is accessed by code that is part of the same class as the instance variable, that variable can 
be referred to directly. The same thing applies to methods.