Dynamic   
Java programs carry with them substantial amounts of run-time type information that  is used to 
verify and resolve accesses to objects at run time. This makes it possible to dynamically link code in 
a safe and expedient manner. This is crucial to the robustness  of the applet environment, in which 
small fragments of bytecode may be dynamically updated on a running system.   
 
1.4 Object Oriented Programming   
   
Object-oriented programming is at the core of Java. In fact, all Java programs are object-oriented— 
this isn’t an option the way that it is in C++, for example. OOP is so integral to Java that you must 
understand its basic principles before you can write even simple Java programs. Therefore, this 
chapter begins with a discussion of the theoretical aspects of OOP.

Two Paradigms    
As you know, all computer programs consist of two elements: code and data. Furthermore, a 
program can be conceptually organized around its code or around its data. That is,some programs 
are written around “what is happening” and others are written around “who is being affected.” 
These are the two paradigms that govern how a program is constructed. The first way is called the 
process-oriented model. This approach characterizes a program as a series of linear steps (that is, 
code). The process-oriented model can be thought of as code acting on data. Procedural languages 
such as C employ this model to considerable success. However, as mentioned in Chapter 1, problems 
with this approach appear as programs grow larger and more complex. To manage increasing 
complexity, the second approach, called object-oriented programming, was conceived. Object-
oriented programming organizes a program around its data (that is, objects) and a set of well-
defined interfaces to that data. An object-oriented program can be characterized as data controlling 
access to code. As you will see, by switching the controlling entity to data, you can achieve several 
organizational benefits.