Most multithreaded systems expose monitors as objects that your program must explicitly acquire 
and manipulate. Java provides a cleaner solution. There is no class “Monitor”; instead, each object 
has its own implicit monitor that is automatically entered when one of the object’s synchronized 
methods is called. Once a thread is inside a synchronized method, no other thread can call any other 
synchronized method on the same object. This enables you to write very clear and concise 
multithreaded code, because synchronization support is built in to the language.   
   
Messaging   
After you divide your program into separate threads, you need to define how they will communicate 
with each other. When programming with most other languages, you must depend on the operating 
system to establish communication between threads. This, of course, adds overhead. By contrast, 
Java provides a clean, low-cost way for two or more threads to talk to each other, via calls to 
predefined methods that all objects.   
   
Synchronization    
When two or more threads need access to a shared resource, they need some way to ensure that 
the resource will be used by only one thread at a time. 
The process by which this is achieved is called synchronization. As you will see, Java provides unique, 
language-level support for it.   
   
Key to synchronization is the concept of the monitor (also called a semaphore). A monitor is an 
object that is used as a mutually exclusive lock, or mutex. Only one thread can own a monitor at a 
given time. When a thread acquires a lock, it is said to have entered the monitor. 
 All other threads attempting to enter the locked monitor will be suspended until the first thread 
exits the monitor. These other threads are said to be waiting for the monitor. A thread that owns a 
monitor can reenter the same monitor if it so desires. If you have worked with synchronization when 
using other languages, such as C or C++, you know that it can be a bit tricky to use. This is because 
most languages do not, themselves, support synchronization. Instead, to synchronize threads, your 
programs need to utilize operating system primitives. Fortunately, because Java implements 
synchronization through language elements, most of the complexity associated with 
synchronization has been eliminated. You can synchronize your code in either of two ways. 
Both involve the use of the synchronized keyword, and both are examined here.   
   
Using Synchronized Methods    
Synchronization is easy in Java, because all objects have their own implicit monitor associated with 
them. To enter an object’s monitor, just call a method that has been modified with the synchronized 
keyword. While a thread is inside a synchronized method, all other threads that try to call it (or any 
other synchronized method) on the same instance have to wait. To exit the monitor and relinquish 
control of the object to the next waiting thread, the owner of the monitor simply returns from the 
synchronized method.   
   
To understand the need for synchronization, let’s begin with a simple example that does not use it—
but should. The following program has three simple classes. The first one, Callme, has a single 
method named call( ). The call( ) method takes a String parameter called msg. This method tries to 
print the msg string inside of square brackets. The interesting thing to notice is that after call( ) prints 
the opening bracket and the msg string, it calls  Thread.sleep(1000), which pauses the current thread 
for one second.   
The constructor of the next class, Caller, takes a reference to an instance of the Callme class and a 
String, which are stored in target and msg, respectively. 
The constructor also creates a new thread that will call this object’s run( ) method. The thread is 
started immediately. The run( ) method of Caller calls the call( ) method on the target instance of 
Callme, passing in the msg string.  