The data, or variables, defined within a class are called instance variables. The code is contained 
within methods. Collectively, the methods and variables defined within a class are called members 
of the class. In most classes, the instance variables are acted upon and accessed by the methods 
defined for that class. Thus, it is the methods that determine how a class’ data can be used.Variables 
defined within a class are called instance variables because each instance of the class (that is, each 
object of the class) contains its own copy of these variables.Thus, the data for one object is separate 
and unique from the data for another. We will come back to this point shortly, but it is an important 
concept to learn early. All methods have the same general form as main( ), which we have been 
using thusfar. However, most methods will not be specified as static or public. Notice that the 
general form of a class does not specify a main( ) method. Java classes do not need to have a main( 
) method. You only specify one if that class is the starting point for your program. Further, applets 
don’t require a   main( ) method at all.   
 
Note: C++ programmers will notice that the class declaration and the implementation of the 
methods are stored in the same place and not defined separately. This sometimes makesfor very 
large .java files, since any class must be entirely defined in a single source file.This design feature 
was built into Java because it was felt that in the long run, having specification, declaration, and 
implementation all in one place makes for code that is easier to maintain.   

A Simple Class    

Let’s begin our study of the class with a simple example. Here is a class called Box that defines three 
instance variables: width, height, and depth. Currently, Box does not contain any methods (but some 
will be added soon).   
   
class Box { double 
width; 
double 
height;   
double depth;   
}   
   
As stated, a class defines a new type of data. In this case, the new data type is called Box. You will 
use this name to declare objects of type Box. It is important to rememberthat a class declaration 
only creates a template; it does not create an actual object. Thus,the preceding code does not cause 
any objects of type Box to come into existence.To actually  create a Box object, you will use a 
statement like the following: Box mybox = new Box(); // create a Box object called mybox. After this 
statement executes, mybox will be an instance of Box. Thus, it will have “physical” reality. For the 
moment, don’t worry about the details of this statement. Again, each time you create an instance 
of a class, you are creating an object that contains its own copy of each instance variable defined by 
the class. Thus, every Box object will contain its own copies of the instance variables width, height, 
and depth. To access these variables, you will use the dot (.) operator. The dot operator links the 
name of the object with the name of an instance variable. For example, to assign  the widthvariable 
of mybox the value 100, you would use the following statement:   
   
mybox.width = 100;   
This statement tells the compiler to assign the copy of width that is contained within the mybox 
object the value of 100. In general, you use the dot operator to access both the instance variables 
and the methods within an object. 
