4.5 The this Keyword 
   
Sometimes a method will need to refer to the object that invoked it. To allow this, Java defines the 
this keyword. this can be used inside any method to refer to the current object. That is, this is always 
a reference to the object on which the method was invoked. You can use this anywhere a reference 
to an object of the current class’ type is permitted. To better understand what this refers to, consider 
the following version of Box( ):   
   
// A redundant use of this.   
Box(double w, double h, double d)   
   
{ this.width = w;   
this.height = h;   
   
this.depth = d;   
}   
   
This version of Box( ) operates exactly like the earlier version. The use of this is redundant, but 
perfectly correct. Inside Box( ), this will always refer to the invoking object. While it is redundant in 
this case, this is useful in other contexts, one of which is explained in the next section.   
   
4.6. Garbage Collection   
   
Since objects are dynamically allocated by using the new operator, you might be wondering how 
such objects are destroyed and their memory released for later reallocation. In some languages, 
such as C++, dynamically allocated objects must be manually released by use of  
a delete operator. Java takes a different approach; it handles deallocation for you automatically. The 
technique that accomplishes this is called garbage collection. It works like this: when no references 
to an object exist, that object is assumed to be no longer needed, and the memory occupied by the 
object can be reclaimed. There is no explicit need to destroy objects as in C++. Garbage collection 
only occurs sporadically (if at all) during the execution of your program. It will not occur simply 
because one or more objects exist that are no longer used. Furthermore, different Java run-time 
implementations will take varying approaches to garbage collection, but for the most part, you 
should not have to think about it while writing your programs.   
   
The finalize( ) Method    
 
Sometimes an object will need to perform some action when it is destroyed. For example, if an 
object is holding some non-Java resource such as a file handle or window character font, then you 
might want to make sure these resources are freed before an object is destroyed. To handle such 
situations, Java provides a mechanism called finalization. By using finalization, you can define 
specific actions that will occur when an object is just about to be reclaimed by the garbage 
collector.To add a finalizer to a class, you simply define the finalize( ) method. The Java run time calls 
that method whenever it is about to recycle an object of that class. Inside the finalize( ) method you 
will specify those actions that must be performed before an object is destroyed. The garbage 
collector runs periodically, checking for objects that are no longer referenced by any running state 
or indirectly through other referenced objects. Right before an asset is freed, the Java run time calls 
the finalize( ) method on the object. The finalize( ) method has this general form:   
   
protected void finalize( )   
{   
// finalization code here   
}   
   
Here, the keyword protected is a specifier that prevents access to finalize( ) by code defined outside 
its class. This and the other access specifiers are explained in Topic 7.  It is important to understand 
that finalize( ) is only called just prior to garbage collection. It is not called when an object goes out-
of-scope, for example. This means that you cannot know when—or even if—finalize( ) will be 
executed. Therefore, your program should provide other means of releasing system resources, etc., 
used by the object. It must not rely on finalize( ) for normal program operation. 