6.4 Using Throws   
In some cases, if a method generates an exception that it does not handle, it must declare that 
exception in a throws clause. Here is the general form of a method that includes a throws clause:    
ret-type methName(param-list) throws except-list {   
 // body    
}   
Here, except-list is a comma-separated list of exceptions that the method might throw outside of 
itself.    
You might be wondering why you did not need to specify a throws clause for some of the preceding 
examples, which threw exceptions outside of methods. The answer is that exceptions that are 
subclasses of Error or RuntimeException don’t need to be specified in a throws list. Java simply 
assumes that a method may throw one. All other types of exceptions do need to be declared. Failure 
to do so causes a compile-time error.  Actually, you saw an example of a throws clause earlier in this 
book. As you will recall, when performing keyboard input, you needed to add the clause  throws 
java.io.IOException to main( ). Now you can understand why.  

An input statement might generate an IOException, and at that time, we weren’t able to handle that 
exception. Thus, such an exception would be thrown out of main( ) and needed to be specified as 
such. Now that you know about exceptions, you can easily handle IOException.   
   
Let’s look at an example that handles IOException. It creates a method called prompt( ), which 
displays a prompting message and then reads a character from the keyboard. Since input is being 
performed, an IOException might occur. However, the prompt( ) method does not handle 
IOException itself. Instead, it uses a throws clause, which means that the calling method must 
handle it. In this example, the calling method is main( ), and it deals with the error.    
On a related point, notice that IOException is fully qualified by its package name java.io. Thus, the 
IOException is also contained there. It would also have been possible to import java.io and then 
refer to IOException directly.