Why Overridden Methods?
 
As stated earlier, overridden methods allow Java to support run-time polymorphism. Polymorphism 
is essential to object-oriented programming for one reason: it allows a general class to specify 
methods that will be common to all of its derivatives, while allowing subclasses to define the specific 
implementation of some or all of those methods. Overridden methods are another way that Java 
implements the “one interface, multiple methods” aspect of polymorphism. Part of the key to 
successfully applying polymorphism is understanding that the superclasses and subclasses form a 
hierarchy which moves from lesser to greater specialization. Used correctly, the superclass provides 
all elements that a subclass can use directly. It also defines those methods that the derived class 
must implement on its own. This allows the subclass the flexibility to define its own methods, yet 
still enforces a consistent interface. Thus, by combining inheritance with overridden methods, a 
superclass can define the general form of the methods that will be used by all of its subclasses.   
   
   
  Using final with Inheritance    
 
The keyword final has three uses. First, it can be used to create the equivalent of a named constant. 
This use was described in the preceding chapter. The other two uses of final apply to inheritance. 
Both are examined here.   
  
Using final to Prevent Overriding    
 
While method overriding is one of Java’s most powerful features, there will be times when you will 
want to prevent it from occurring. To disallow a method from being overridden, specify final as a 
modifier at the start of its declaration. Methods declared as final cannot be overridden. The 
following fragment illustrates   final:   
class A {  
final void meth() {   
System.out.println("This is a final method.");   
}   
}      
class B extends A { void meth() { // ERROR! 
Can't override.   
System.out.println("Illegal!");   
}   
}

Because meth( ) is declared as final, it cannot be overridden in B. If you attempt to do so, a compile-
time error will result. Methods declared as final can sometimes provide a performance 
enhancement: The compiler is free to inline calls to them because it “knows” they will not be 
overridden by a subclass. When a small final method is called, often the Java compiler can copy the 
bytecode for the subroutine directly inline with the compiled code of the calling method, thus 
eliminating the costly overhead associated with a method call. Inlining is only an option with final 
methods. Normally, Java resolves calls to methods dynamically, at run time. This is called late 
binding. However, since final methods cannot be overridden, a call to one can be resolved at compile 
time. This is called early binding.   
   
Using final to Prevent Inheritance   
Sometimes you will want to prevent a class from being inherited. To do this, precede the class 
declaration with final. Declaring a class as final implicitly declares all of its methods as final, too. 
As you might expect, it is illegal to declare a class as both abstract and final since an abstract class 
is incomplete by itself and relies upon its subclasses to provide complete implementations.  Here 
is an example of a   final class: final class A { // ...   

}   
// The following class is illegal.   
class B extends A { // ERROR! Can't subclass A   
// ...   
}

As the comments imply, it is illegal for B to inherit A since A is declared as final.  