Thread Priorities   
 
Java assigns to each thread a priority that determines how that thread should be treated with 
respect to the others. Thread priorities are integers that specify the relative priority of one thread 
to another. As an absolute value, a priority is meaningless; a higher-priority thread doesn’t run any 
faster than a lower-priority thread if it is the only thread running. Instead, a thread’s priority is used 
to decide when to switch from one running thread to the next. This is called a context switch. The 
rules that determine when a context switch takes place are simple:    
A thread can voluntarily relinquish control. This is done by explicitly yielding, sleeping, or blocking 
on pending I/O. In this scenario, all other threads are examined, and the highestpriority thread that 
is ready to run is given the CPU.   
   
A thread can be preempted by a higher-priority thread. In this case, a lower-priority thread that 
does not yield the processor is simply preempted—no matter what it is doing— by a higher-priority 
thread. Basically, as soon as a higher-priority thread wants to run, it does. This is called preemptive 
multitasking. 

In cases where two threads with the same priority are competing for CPU cycles, the situation is 
a bit complicated. For operating systems such as Windows 98, threads of equal priority are time-
sliced automatically in round-robin fashion. For other types of operating systems, threads of equal 
priority must voluntarily yield control to their peers. If they don’t, the other threads will not run.   
   
7.2 Synchronization  
   
Because multithreading introduces an asynchronous behavior to your programs, there must be a 
way for you to enforce synchronicity when you need it. For example, if you want two threads to 
communicate and share a complicated data structure, such as a linked list, you need some way to 
ensure that they don’t conflict with each other. That is, you must prevent one thread from writing 
data while another thread is in the middle of reading it. For this purpose, Java implements an 
elegant twist on an age-old model of interprocess synchronization: the monitor. The monitor is a 
control mechanism first defined by C.A.R. Hoare. You can think of a monitor as a very small box that 
can hold only one thread.  
Once a thread enters a monitor, all other threads must wait until that thread exits the monitor. In 
this way, a monitor can be used to protect a shared asset from being manipulated by more than one 
thread at a time.  