2.5. The Assignment Operator 
   
You have been using the assignment operator since Topic 2. Now it is time to take a formal look at 
it. The assignment operator is the single equal sign, =. The assignment operator works in Java much 
as it does in any other computer language. It has this general form:    
var = expression;   
   
Here, the type of var must be compatible with the type of expression.   
The assignment operator does have one interesting attribute that you may not be familiar with: it 
allows you to create a chain of assignments. For example, consider this fragment:   int x, y, z;   
   
x = y = z = 100; // set x, y, and z to 100   
This fragment sets the variables x, y, and z to 100 using a single statement. This works because the 
= is an operator that yields the value of the right-hand expression. Thus, the value of z = 100 is 100, 
which is then assigned to y, which in turn is assigned to x. Using a “chain of assignment” is an easy 
way to set a group of variables to a common value.   
   
2.6. Control Statements  
   
A programming language uses control statements to cause the flow of execution to advance and 
branch based on changes to the state of a program. Java’s program control statements can be put 
into the following categories: selection, iteration, and jump. Selection statements allow your 
program to choose different paths of execution based upon the outcome of an expression or the 
state of a variable. Iteration statements enable program execution to repeat one or more statements 
(that is, iteration statements form loops). Jump statements allow your program to execute in a 
nonlinear fashion. All of Java’s control statements are examined here.   
   
Java’s Selection Statements    
Java supports two selection statements: if and switch. These statements allow you to control the 
flow of your program’s execution based upon conditions known only during run time. You will be 
pleasantly surprised by the power and flexibility contained in these two statements.   
  
The If Statement    
 
The if statement was introduced in Chapter 2. It is examined in detail here. The if statement is Java’s 
conditional branch statement. It can be used to route program execution through two different 
paths. Here is the general form of the if statement:   
   
if (condition) statement1;  
else  
statement2;   