When you use multiple catch statements, it is important to remember that exception subclasses 
must come before any of their superclasses. This is because a catch statement that uses a superclass 
will catch exceptions of that type plus any of its subclasses. Thus, a subclass would never be reached 
if it came after its superclass. Further, in Java, unreachable code is an error. For example, consider 
the following program:   
   
/* This program contains an error.   
A subclass must come before its superclass in  
a series of catch statements. If not, 
unreachable code will be created and a 
compile-time error will result.   
*/   
   
class SuperSubCatch {  public static 
void main(String args[])  
{ try { int a = 0;   
   
int b = 42 / a;   
}  catch(Exception 
e) {   
System.out.println("Generic Exception catch.");   
   
}   
/* This catch is never reached because   
ArithmeticException 
is 
a 
subclass 
of 
Exception. 
*/ 
catch(ArithmeticException  
e)  
{  
//  
ERROR  - 
unreachable   
System.out.println("This  
is  
never reached.");
}   
   
}   
   
}   


If you try to compile this program, you will receive an error message stating that the second catch 
statement is unreachable because the exception has already been caught.   
Since ArithmeticException is a subclass of Exception, the first catch statement will handle all 
Exception-based errors, including ArithmeticException. This means that the second catch statement 
will never execute. To fix the problem, reverse the order of the catch statements.   
   
Throw    
So far, you have only been catching exceptions that are thrown by the Java run-time system. 
However, it is possible for your program to throw an exception explicitly, using the throw statement. 
The general form of throw is shown here:   
   
throw   ThrowableInstance;   
Here, ThrowableInstance must be an object of type Throwable or a subclass of   
Throwable. Simple types, such as int or char, as well as non-Throwable classes, such as String    
and Object, cannot be used as exceptions. There are two ways you can obtain a Throwable object: 
using a parameter into a catch clause, or creating one with the new operator.The flow of execution 
stops immediately after the throw statement; any subsequent statements are not executed. The 
nearest enclosing try block is inspected to see if it has a catch statement that matches the type 
of the exception. If it does find a match, control is transferred to that statement. If not, then 
the next enclosing try statement is inspected, and so on. If no matching catch is found, then 
the default exception handler halts the program and prints the stack trace. Here is a sample 
program that creates and throws an exception. The handler that catches the exception 
rethrows it to the outer handler. 