Here, class-var is a variable of the class type being created. The classname is the name of the class 
that is being instantiated. The class name followed by parentheses specifies the constructor for the 
class. A constructor defines what occurs when an object of a class is created.   
Constructors are an important part of all classes and have many significant attributes. Most real-
world classes explicitly define their own constructors within their class definition. However, if no 
explicit constructor is specified, then Java will automatically supply a default constructor. This is the 
case with Box. For now, we will use the default constructor. Soon, you will see how to define your 
own constructors.
  
At this point, you might be wondering why you do not need to use new for such things as integers 
or characters. The answer is that Java’s simple types are not implemented as objects. Rather, they 
are implemented as “normal” variables. This is done in the interest of efficiency. As you will see, 
objects have many features and attributes that require Java to treat them differently than it treats 
the simple types. By not applying the same overhead to the simple types that applies to objects, 
Java can implement the simple types more efficiently. Later, you will see object versions of the 
simple types that are available for your use in those situations in which complete objects of these 
types are needed. It is important to understand that new allocates memory for an object during run 
time. The advantage of this approach is that your program can create as many or as few objects as 
it needs during the execution of your program. However, since memory is finite, it is possible that 
new will not be able to allocate memory for an object because insufficient memory exists.  
 
If this happens, a runtime exception will occur. (You will learn how to handle this and other 
exceptions in Chapter 10.) For the sample programs in this book, you won’t need to worry about 
running out of memory, but you will need to consider this possibility in real-world programs that 
you write. Let’s once again review the distinction between a class and an object. A class creates a 
new data type that can be used to create objects. That is, a class creates a logical framework that 
defines the relationship between its members. When you declare an object of a class, you are 
creating an instance of that class. Thus, a class is a logical construct. An object has physical reality. 
(That is, an object occupies space in memory.) It is important to keep this distinction clearly in mind.   