5.4 Exception Handling   
   
This chapter examines Java’s exception-handling mechanism. An exception is an abnormal condition 
that arises in a code sequence at run time. In other words, an exception is a runtime error. In 
computer languages that do not support exception handling, errors must be checked and handled 
manually—typically through the use of error codes, and so on. This approach is as cumbersome as 
it is troublesome. Java’s exception handling avoids these problems and, in the process, brings run-
time error management into the objectoriented world. For the most part, exception handling has 
not changed since the original version of Java. However, Java 2, version 1.4 has added a new 
subsystem called the chained exception facility. This feature is described near the end of this 
chapter.   
   
Exception-Handling Fundamentals    
 
A Java exception is an object that describes an exceptional (that is, error) condition that has occurred 
in a piece of code. When an exceptional condition arises, an object representing that exception is 
created and  thrown in the method that caused the error. That method may choose to handle the 
exception itself, or pass it on. Either way, at some point, the exception is caught and processed. 

Exceptions can be generated by the Java runtime system, or they can be manually generated by your 
code. Exceptions thrown by Java relate to fundamental errors that violate the rules of the Java 
language or the constraints of the Java execution environment. Manually generated exceptions are 
typically used to report some error condition to the caller of a method. Java exception handling is 
managed via five keywords: try, catch, throw, throws, and finally.  
 
Briefly, here is how they work. Program statements that you want to monitor for exceptions are 
contained within a try block. If an exception occurs within the try block, it is thrown.  
Your code can catch this exception (using catch) and handle it in some rational manner. System-
generated exceptions are automatically thrown by the Java run-time system. To manually throw an 
exception, use the keyword throw. Any exception that is thrown out of a method must be specified 
as such by a throws clause. Any code that absolutely must be executed before a method returns is 
put in a finally block.   
   
This is the general form of an exception-handling block:   
   
try {   
// block of code to monitor for errors   
}   
   
catch (ExceptionType1 exOb) {   
// exception handler for ExceptionType1   
}   
catch (ExceptionType2 exOb) {   
   
// exception handler for ExceptionType2   
}  // 
...  
finally {   
// block of code to be executed before try block 
ends   
}   

Here, ExceptionType is the type of exception that has occurred. The remainder of this chapter 
describes how to apply this framework. 