Chapter Seven: Multithreading and  Collections in Java 
   
7.1 Multithreading Programming  
   
 The Java Thread Model  
 
The Java run-time system depends on threads for many things, and all the class libraries are 
designed with multithreading in mind. In fact, Java uses threads to enable the entire environment 
to be asynchronous. This helps reduce inefficiency by preventing the waste of CPU cycles. The value 
of a multithreaded environment is best understood in contrast to its counterpart. Single-threaded 
systems use an approach called an event loop with polling.In this model, a single thread of control 
runs in an infinite loop, polling a single event queue to decide what to do next.  

Once this polling mechanism returns with, say, a signal that a network file is ready to be read, then 
the event loop dispatches control to the appropriate event handler. Until this event handler returns, 
nothing else can happen in the system. This wastes CPU time. It can also result in one part of a 
program dominating the system and preventing any other events from being processed. In general, 
in a singled threaded environment, when a thread blocks (that is, suspends execution) because it is 
waiting for some resource, the entire program stops running. The benefit of Java’s multithreading is 
that the main loop/polling mechanism is eliminated. One thread can pause without stopping other 
parts of your program. For example, the idle time created when a thread reads data from a network 
or waits for user input can be utilized elsewhere. 

Multithreading allows animation loops to sleep for a second between each frame without causing 
the whole system to pause. When a thread blocks in a Java program, only the single thread that is 
blocked pauses. All other threads continue to run. Threads exist in several states. A thread can be 
running. It can be ready to run as soon as it gets CPU time. A running thread can be suspended, 
which temporarily suspends its activity. A suspended thread can then be resumed, allowing it to 
pick up where it left off. A thread can be blocked when waiting for a resource. At any time, a thread 
can be terminated, which halts its execution immediately. Once terminated, a thread cannot be 
resumed.