6.1.2 Exception Types   
   
All exception types are subclasses of the built-in class Throwable. Thus, Throwable is at the top of 
the exception class hierarchy. Immediately below Throwable are two subclasses that partition 
exceptions into two distinct branches. One branch is headed by Exception. This class is used for 
exceptional conditions that user programs should catch. This is also the class that you will subclass    
to create your own custom exception types. There is an important subclass of Exception, called 
RuntimeException.  
 
Exceptions of this type are automatically defined for the programs that you write and include things 
such as division by zero and invalid array indexing.    
The other branch is topped by Error, which defines exceptions that are not expected to be caught 
under normal circumstances by your program. Exceptions of type Error are used by the Java run-
time system to indicate errors having to do with the run-time environment, itself. Stack overflow is 
an example of such an error. This chapter will not be dealing with exceptions of type Error, because 
these are typically created in response to catastrophic failures that cannot usually be handled by 
your program.

6.1.3 Uncaught Exceptions   
   
Before you learn how to handle exceptions in your program, it is useful to see what happens when 
you don’t handle them. This small program includes an expression that intentionally causes a divide-
by-zero error:   
class Exc0 {     public static void  
main(String args[]) {     int d = 0;     int a = 42 / d;   
    } }   
   
When the Java run-time system detects the attempt to divide by zero, it constructs a new exception 
object and then throws this exception. This causes the execution of Exc0 to stop, because once an 
exception has been thrown, it must be caught by an exception handler and dealt with immediately. 
In this example, we haven’t supplied any exception handlers of our own, so the exception is caught 
by the default handler provided by the Java run-time system. Any exception that is not caught by 
your program will ultimately be processed by the default handler. The default handler displays a  
string describing the exception, prints a stack trace from the point at which the exception occurred, 
and terminates the program. Here is the exception generated when this example is executed:   
java.lang.ArithmeticException: / by zero at  
Exc0.main(Exc0.java:4)   
   
Notice how the class name, Exc0; the method name, main; the filename, Exc0.java; and the line 
number, 4, are all included in the simple stack trace. 
 Also, notice that the type of exception thrown is a subclass of Exception called ArithmeticException, 
which more specifically describes what type of error happened. As discussed later in this chapter, 
Java supplies several built-in exception types that match the various sorts of run-time errors that 
can be generated.