CHAPTER FOUR: INTRODUCING CLASSES AND METHODS   
   
4.1. Introducing Classes 
   
The class is at the core of Java. It is the logical construct upon which the entire Java language is built 
because it defines the shape and nature of an object. As such, the class forms the basis for object-
oriented programming in Java. Any concept you wish to implement in a Java program must be 
encapsulated within a class. Because the class is so fundamental to Java, this and the next few 
chapters will be devoted to it. Here, you will be introduced to the basic elements of a class and learn 
how a class can be used to create objects. You will also learn about methods, constructors, and the 
this keyword.

Class Fundamentals    
 
Classes have been used since the beginning of this book. However, until now, only the most 
rudimentary form of a class has been used. The classes created in the preceding chapters primarily 
exist simply to encapsulate the main( ) method, which has been used to demonstrate the basics of 
the Java syntax. As you will see, classes are substantially more powerful than the limited ones 
presented so far. Perhaps the most important thing to understand about a class is that it defines a 
new data type. Once defined, this new type can be used to create objects of that type. Thus, a class 
is a template for an object, and an object is an instance of a class. Because an object is an instance 
of a class, you will often see the two words object and instance used interchangeably.   
   
The General Form of a Class    
When you define a class, you declare its exact form and nature. You do this by specifying the data 
that it contains and the code that operates on that data. While very simple classes may contain 
only code or only data, most real-world classes contain both. As you will   
see, a class’ code defines the interface to its data. A class is declared by use of the class keyword. 
The classes that have been used up to this point are actually very limited examples of its complete 
form. Classes can (and usually do) get much more complex. The general form of a class definition is 
shown here:   
   
class classname {  
type instance-variable1; type instance-variable2;   
   
// ...   
type instance-variableN;   
type methodname1(parameter-list) {   
// body of method   
}   

   
   
   
   
97   
   
type methodname2(parameter-list) {   
// body of method   
   
}   
// ...   
type methodnameN(parameter-list) {   
// body of method   
}   
   
}  