4.2.Declaring Objects  
   
As just explained, when you create a class, you are creating a new data type. You can use this type 
to declare objects of that type. However, obtaining objects of a class is a two-step process. First, you 
must declare a variable of the class type. This variable does not define an object. Instead, it is simply 
a variable that can refer to an object. Second, you must acquire an actual, physical copy of the object 
and assign it to that variable. You can do this using the new operator.  
The new operator dynamically allocates (that is, allocates at run time) memory for an object and 
returns a reference to it. This reference is, more or less, the address in memory of the object 
allocated by new. This reference is then stored in the variable. Thus, in Java, all class objects must 
be dynamically allocated. Let’s look at the details of this procedure. In the preceding sample 
programs, a line similar to the following is used to declare an object of type Box:   
   
Box mybox = new Box();   
   
This statement combines the two steps just described. It can be rewritten like this to show each 
step more clearly:   
   
Box mybox; // declare reference to object 
mybox = new Box(); // allocate a Box object   
   
The first line declares mybox as a reference to an object of type Box. After this line executes,   
 
mybox contains the value null, which indicates that it does not yet point to an actual object. 
Any attempt to use mybox at this point will result in a compile-time error. The next line allocates an 
actual object and assigns a reference to it to mybox. After the second line executes, you can use 
mybox as if it were a Box object. But in reality, mybox simply holds the memory address of the actual 
Box object. The effect of these two lines of code. 

Figure 4.1 Declaring an Object of type Box   

A Closer Look at keyword new    
As just explained, the new operator dynamically allocates memory for an object. It has this general 
form:    
class-var = new classname( );   