Aside from deciding when to forward or when to filter the packet, Ethernet switches also 
completely regenerate the Ethernet packet. This regeneration and re-timing allows each port on a 
switch to be treated as a complete Ethernet segment, capable of supporting the full length of 
cable along with all of the repeater restrictions. The standard Ethernet slot time required in 
CSMA/CD half-duplex modes is not long enough for running over 100m copper, so Carrier 
Extension is used to guarantee a 512-bit slot time. 
Additionally, bad packets are identified by Ethernet switches and immediately dropped from any 
future transmission. This “cleansing” activity keeps problems isolated to a single segment and 
keeps them from disrupting other network activity. This aspect of switching is extremely 
important in a network environment where hardware failures are to be anticipated. Full duplex 
doubles the bandwidth on a link, and is another method used to increase bandwidth to dedicated 
workstations or servers. Full duplex modes are available for standard Ethernet, Fast Ethernet, and 
Gigabit Ethernet. To use full duplex, special network interface cards are installed in the server or 
workstation, and the switch is programmed to support full duplex operation. 

1.10.2 Increasing Performance with Fast and Gigabit Ethernet 
Implementing Fast or Gigabit Ethernet to increase performance is the next logical step when 
Ethernet becomes too slow to meet user needs. Higher traffic devices can be connected to 
switches or each other via Fast Ethernet or Gigabit Ethernet, providing a great increase in 
bandwidth. Many switches are designed with this in mind, and have Fast Ethernet uplinks 
available for connection to a file server or other switches. Eventually, Fast Ethernet can be 
deployed to user desktops by equipping all computers with Fast Ethernet network interface cards 
and using Fast Ethernet switches and repeaters. 
With an understanding of the underlying technologies and products in use in Ethernet networks, 
the next tutorial will advance to a discussion of some of the most popular real-world applications.