1.15.10 Switch Buffer Limitations 
As packets are processed in the switch, they are held in buffers. If the destination segment is 
congested, the switch holds on to the packet as it waits for bandwidth to become available on the 
crowded segment. Buffers that are full present a problem. So some analysis of the buffer sizes and 
strategies for handling overflows is of interest for the technically inclined network designer. 
In real world networks, crowded segments cause many problems, so their impact on switch 
consideration is not important for most users, since networks should be designed to eliminate 
crowded, congested segments. There are two strategies for handling full buffers. One is 
“backpressure flow control” which sends packets back upstream to the source nodes of packets 
that find a full buffer. This compares to the strategy of simply dropping the packet, and relying on 
the integrity features in networks to retransmit automatically. One solution spreads the problem 
in one segment to other segments, propagating the problem. The other solution causes 
retransmissions, and that resulting increase in load is not optimal. Neither strategy solves the 
problem, so switch vendors use large buffers and advise network managers to design switched 
network topologies to eliminate the source of the problem – congested segments. 

1.15.11 Layer 3 Switching 
A hybrid device is the latest improvement in internetworking technology. Combining the packet 
handling of routers and the speed of switching, these multilayer switches operate on both layers 2 
and layer 3 of the OSI network model. The performance of this class of switch is aimed at the core 
of large enterprise networks. Sometimes called routing switches or IP switches, multilayer 
switches look for common traffic flows, and switch these flows on the hardware layer for speed. 
For traffic outside the normal flows, the multilayer switch uses routing functions. This keeps the 
higher overhead routing functions only where it is needed, and strives for the best handling 
strategy for each network packet. 
Many vendors are working on high end multilayer switches, and the technology is definitely a 
“work in process”. As networking technology evolves, multilayer switches are likely to replace 
routers in most large networks. 