1.13.1 Device Servers Defined 
A device server is “a specialized network-based hardware device designed to perform a single or 
specialized set of functions with client access independent of any operating system or proprietary 
protocol.” Device servers allow independence from proprietary protocols and the ability to meet a 
number of different functions. The RAID controller application discussed above is just one of many 
applications where device servers can be used to put any device or “machine” on the network. 
PCs have been used to network serial devices with some success.  This, however, required the 
product with the serial port to have software able to run on the PC, and then have that application 
software allow the PC’s networking software to access the application. This task equaled the 
problems of putting Ethernet on the serial device itself so it wasn’t a satisfactory solution. 

To be successful, a device server must provide a simple solution for networking a device and allow 
access to that device as if it were locally available through its serial port. Additionally, the device 
server should provide for the multitude of connection possibilities that a device may require on 
both the serial and network sides of a connection. Should the device be connected all the time to 
a specific host or PC? Are there multiple hosts or network devices that may want or need to 
connect to the newly-networked serial device? Are there specific requirements for an application  
which requires the serial device to reject a connection from the network under certain 
circumstances? The bottom line is a server must have both the flexibility to service a multitude of 
application requirements and be able to meet all the demands of those applications. 
Capitalizing on Lantronix Device Server Expertise and Proven Solutions 
Lantronix is at the forefront of M2M communication technology.The company is 
highly focused on enabling the networking of devices previously not on 
the network so they can be accessed and managed remotely. 