1.6.2 Fast Ethernet 
The Fast Ethernet standard (IEEE 802.3u) has been established for Ethernet networks that need 
higher transmission speeds. This standard raises the Ethernet speed limit from 10 Mbps to 100 
Mbps with only minimal changes to the existing cable structure. Fast Ethernet provides faster 
throughput for video, multimedia, graphics, Internet surfing and stronger error detection and 
correction. 
There are three types of Fast Ethernet: 100BASE-TX for use with level 5 UTP cable; 100BASE-FX for 
use with fiber-optic cable; and 100BASE-T4 which utilizes an extra two wires for use with level 3 
UTP cable. The 100BASE-TX standard has become the most popular due to its close compatibility 
with the 10BASE-T Ethernet standard. 
Network managers who want to incorporate Fast Ethernet into an existing configuration are 
required to make many decisions. The number of users in each site on the network that need the 
higher throughput must be determined; which segments of the backbone need to be reconfigured 
specifically for 100BASE-T; plus what hardware is necessary in order to connect the 100BASE-T 
segments with existing 10BASE-T segments. Gigabit Ethernet is a future technology that promises 
a migration path beyond Fast Ethernet so the next generation of networks will support even 
higher data transfer speeds. 

1.6.3 Gigabit Ethernet 
Gigabit Ethernet was developed to meet the need for faster communication networks with 
applications such as multimedia and Voice over IP (VoIP). Also known as “gigabit-Ethernet-over-
copper” or 1000Base-T, GigE is a version of Ethernet that runs at speeds 10 times faster than 
100Base-T. It is defined in the IEEE 802.3 standard and is currently used as an enterprise 
backbone. Existing Ethernet LANs with 10 and 100 Mbps cards can feed into a Gigabit Ethernet 
backbone to interconnect high performance switches, routers and servers. 
From the data link layer of the OSI model upward, the look and implementation of Gigabit 
Ethernet is identical to that of Ethernet. The most important differences between Gigabit Ethernet
and Fast Ethernet include the additional support of full duplex operation in the MAC layer and the 
data rates. 