1.12.4 Console Servers 
Console servers provide the flexibility of both standard and emergency remote access via 
attachment to the network or to a modem. Remote console management serves as a valuable tool 
to help maximize system uptime and system operating costs. 
Secure console servers provide familiar tools to leverage the console or emergency management 
port built into most serial devices, including servers, switches, routers, telecom equipment – 
anything in a rack – even if the network is down. They also supply complete in-band and out-of-
band local and remote management for the data center with tools such as telnet and SSH that 
help manage the performance and availability of critical business information systems. 
Console Management Solutions  
Some vendors provide complete in-band and out-of-band local and remote management solutions 
for the data center. Lantronix secure console management products give IT managers unsurpassed 
ability to securely and remotely manage serial devices, including servers, switches, routers, 
telecom equipment – anything in a rack – even if the network is down. 
Conclusion s
The ability to manage virtually any electronic device over a network or the Internet is changing the 
way the world works and does business. With the ability to remotely manage, monitor, diagnose 
and control equipment, a new level of functionality is added to networking — providing business 
with increased intelligence and efficiency.  For example Lantronix leads the way in developing new 
network intelligence and has been a tireless pioneer in machine-to-machine (M2M) 
communication technology. 
We hope this introduction to networking has been helpful and informative. This tutorial was 
meant to be an overview and not a comprehensive guide that explains everything there is to know 
about planning, installing, administering and troubleshooting a network. There are many Internet 
websites, books and magazines available that explain all aspects of computer networks, from LANs 
to WANs, network hardware to running cable. To learn about these subjects in greater detail, 
check your local bookstore, software retailer or newsstand for more information. 