Device servers only cost a fraction of PCs. And, the cost 
calculation is not just the hardware alone, but the man-hours required creating software that 
would allow a PC-serial-port-based applications program to be converted into a program linking 
that information to the PC’s network port. Device server technology resolves this issue by allowing 
the original applications software to be run on a networked PC and then use port redirector 
software to connect up to that device via the network. This enables the medical facility to 
transition from a PC at each device and software development required to network that data, to 
using only a couple of networked PCs doing the processing for all of the devices. 

This is a quick snapshot of device servers at work in a variety of applications, it should be noted 
that this is only a sampling of the many markets where these devices could be used. With the 
ever-increasing requirement to manage, monitor, diagnose and control many and different forms 
of equipment and as device server technology continues to evolve, the applications are literally 
only limited by the imagination. 

Terms  
Serial server traditionally, a unit used for connecting a modem to the network for shared 
access among users. Terminal server traditionally, a unit that connects asynchronous devices such as terminals, 
printers, hosts, and modems to a LAN or WAN. 
Device server a specialized network-based hardware device designed to perform a single 
or specialized set of functions with client access independent of any operating system or 
proprietary protocol. 

Print server a host device that connects and manages shared printers over a network. 
 Console server software that allows the user to connect consoles from various equipment 
into the serial ports of a single device and gain access to these consoles from anywhere on 
the network. Console manager a unit or program that allows the user to remotely manage serial 
devices, including servers, switches, routers and telecom equipment. 