1.7.3.1 Media 
An important part of designing and installing an Ethernet is selecting the appropriate Ethernet 
medium. There are four major types of media in use today: Thick wire for 10BASE5 networks; thin 
coax for 10BASE2 networks; unshielded twisted pair (UTP) for 10BASE-T networks; and fiber optic 
for 10BASE-FL or Fiber-Optic Inter-Repeater Link (FOIRL) networks. This wide variety of media 
reflects the evolution of Ethernet and also points to the technology’s flexibility. Thick wire was one 
of the first cabling systems used in Ethernet, but it was expensive and difficult to use. This evolved 
to thin coax, which is easier to work with and less expensive. It is important to note that each type 
of Ethernet, Fast Ethernet, Gigabit Ethernet, 10 Gigabit Ethernet, has its own preferred media 
types. 

The most popular wiring schemes are 10BASE-T and 100BASE-TX, which use unshielded twisted 
pair (UTP) cable. This is similar to telephone cable and comes in a variety of grades, with each 
higher grade offering better performance. Level 5 cable is the highest, most expensive grade, 
offering support for transmission rates of up to 100 Mbps. Level 4 and level 3 cable are less 
expensive, but cannot support the same data throughput speeds; level 4 cable can support speeds 
of up to 20 Mbps; level 3 up to 16 Mbps. The 100BASE-T4 standard allows for support of 100 Mbps 
Ethernet over level 3 cables, but at the expense of adding another pair of wires (4 pair instead of 
the 2 pair used for 10BASE-T). For most users, this is an awkward scheme and therefore 100BASE-
T4 has seen little popularity. Level 2 and level 1 cables are not used in the design of 10BASE-T 
networks. 

For specialized applications, fiber-optic, or 10BASE-FL, Ethernet segments are popular. Fiber-optic 
cable is more expensive, but it is invaluable in situations where electronic emissions and 
environmental hazards are a concern. Fiber-optic cable is often used in inter-building applications 
to insulate networking equipment from electrical damage caused by lightning. Because it does not 
conduct electricity, fiber-optic cable can also be useful in areas where heavy electromagnetic 
interference is present, such as on a factory floor. The Ethernet standard allows for fiber-optic 
cable segments up to two kilometers long, making fiber-optic Ethernet perfect for connecting 
nodes and buildings that are otherwise not reachable with copper media. 