CAT1 is used for telephone wiring only. This type of wire is not capable of supporting computer 
network traffic and is not twisted. CAT1 is also used by telco companies providing ISDN and PSTN 
services.  
 CAT2, CAT3, CAT4, CAT5/5e, CAT6 & CAT 7 are network wire specifications. This type of wire can 
support computer network and telephone traffic. CAT2 is used mostly for token ring networks, 
supporting speeds up to 4 Mbps. For higher network speeds (100 Mbps or higher) CAT5e can do the 
job. 
 CAT3, CAT4 and CAT5 cables are actually 4 pairs of twisted copper wires and CAT5 has more twists 
per inch than CAT3 therefore can run at higher speeds and greater lengths. CAT3 and CAT4 are both 
used for Token Ring networks -- where CAT 3 can provide support of a maximum 10Mbps, while 
CAT4 pushed the limit up to 16Mbps a limit of 100 meters. 

 The more popular CAT5 wire was later on replaced by the CAT5e specification which provides 
improved crosstalk specification, allowing it to support speeds of up to 1Gbps. CAT5e is the most 
widely used cabling specification world-wide and unlike the category cables that follow, is very 
forgiving when the cable termination and deployment guidelines are not met. 
 CAT6 wire was originally designed to support gigabit Ethernet, although there are standards that will 
allow gigabit transmission over CAT5e wire. It is similar to CAT5e wire, but contains a physical 
separator between the four pairs to further reduce electromagnetic interference. CAT6 is able to 
support speeds of 1Gbps for lengths of up to 100 meters, and 10Gbps is also supported for lengths 
of up to 55 meters. 
New cabling installations use CAT6 as a standard, however it is important to note that all cabling 
components (jacks, patch panels, patch cords etc.) must be CAT6 certified and extra caution must be 
given to the proper termination of the cable ends. 
 However in 2009, CAT6A was introduced as a higher specification cable, offering better 
immunization to crosstalk and electromagnetic interference. 
 Organizations performing installations using CAT6 cabling should request a thorough test report 
using a certified cable analyzer, to ensure the installation has been performed according to CAT6 
guidelines & standards. 
 