Lantronix has built on its long history and vast experience as a terminal, print and serial server 
Technology Company to develop more functionality in its servers that “cross the boundary” of 
what many would call traditional terminal or print services. Our technology provides: 
 The ability to translate between different protocols to allow non-routable protocols to be 
routed 
 The ability to allow management connections to single-port servers while they are 
processing transactions between their serial port and the network 
 A wide variety of options for both serial and network connections including serial tunneling 
and automatic host connection make these servers some of the most sophisticated 
Ethernet-enabling devices available today. 
Ease of Use 
As an independent device on the network, device servers are surprisingly easy to manage. 
Lantronix has spent years perfecting Ethernet protocol software and its engineers have provided a 
wide range of management tools for this device server technology. Serial ports are ideal vehicles 
for device management purposes – a simple command set allows easy configuration. The same 
command set that can be exercised on the serial port can be used when connecting via Telnet to a 
Lantronix device server. 
An important feature to remember about the Lantronix Telnet management interface is that it can 
actually be run as a second connection while data is being transferred through the server – this 
feature allows the user to actually monitor the data traffic on even a single-port server’s serial 
port connection while active. Lantronix device servers also support SNMP, the recognized 
standard for IP management that is used by many large networks for management purposes. 
Finally, Lantronix has its own management software utilities which utilize a graphical user 
interface providing an easy way to manage Lantronix device servers. In addition, the servers all 
have Flash ROMs which can be reloaded in the field with the latest firmware.
