1.15.4 Network Switching 
The benefits of switching vary from network to network. Adding a switch for the first time has 
different implications than increasing the number of switched ports already installed. 
Understanding traffic patterns is very important to network switching – the goal being to 
eliminate (or filter) as much traffic as possible. A switch installed in a location where it forwards 
almost all the traffic it receives will help much less than one that filters most of the traffic. 
Networks that are not congested can actually be negatively impacted by adding switches. Packet 
processing delays, switch buffer limitations, and the retransmissions that can result sometimes 
slows performance compared with the hub based alternative. If your network is not congested, 
don’t replace hubs with switches. How can you tell if performance problems are the result of 
network congestion? Measure utilization factors and collision rates. 
Good Candidates for Performance Boosts from Switching 
 Utilization more than 35% 
 Collision rates more than 10% 

Utilization load is the amount of total traffic as a percent of the theoretical maximum for the 
network type, 10 Mbps in Ethernet, 100 Mbps in Fast Ethernet. The collision rate is the 
number of packets with collisions as a percentage of total packages 
Figure 1- 16: Boosting from Switching 
Network response times (the user-visible part of network performance) suffers as the load on the 
network increases, and under heavy loads small increases in user traffic often results in significant 
decreases in performance. This is similar to automobile freeway dynamics, in that increasing loads 
results in increasing throughput up to a point, then further increases in demand results in rapid 
deterioration of true throughput. In Ethernet, collisions increase as the network is loaded, and this 
causes retransmissions and increases in load which cause even more collisions. The resulting 
network overload slows traffic considerably. 
Using network utilities found on most server operating systems network managers can determine 
utilization and collision rates. Both peak and average statistics should be considered. 