Figure 1- 10: Traditional Services Model 
 
Figure 1- 11Service Model: Remote Management with device networking 

M2M technology also greatly benefits any organization that cannot afford downtime, such as 
energy management facilities where power failures can be catastrophic, or hospitals who can’t 
afford interruptions with lives at stake. By proactively monitoring networked-enabled equipment 
to ensure it is functioning properly at all times, business can ensure uptime on critical systems, 
improve customer service and increase profitability. 
Wireless technology is especially ideal in instances when it would be impractical or cost-
prohibitive for cabling; or in instances where a high level of mobility is required. 
 
Figure 1- 12: wireless Ethernet connection 
Wireless device networking has benefits for all types of organizations. For example, in the medical 
field, where reduced staffing, facility closures and cost containment pressures are just a few of the 
daily concerns, device networking can assist with process automation and data security. Routine 
activities such as collection and dissemination of data, remote patient monitoring, asset tracking 
and reducing service costs can be managed quickly and safely with the use of wireless networked 
devices. In this environment, Lantronix device servers can network and manage patient 
monitoring devices, mobile EKG units, glucose analyzers, blood analyzers, infusion pumps, 
ventilators and virtually any other diagnostic tool with serial capability over the Internet. 
Forklift accidents in large warehouses cause millions of dollars in damaged product, health claims, 
lost work and equipment repairs each year. To minimize the lost revenue and increase their profit 
margin and administrative overhead, “a company” has utilized wireless networking technology to 
solve the problem. Using Lantronix serial-to-802.11 wireless device server “the company” 
wirelessly network-enables a card reader which is tied to the ignition system of all the forklifts in 
the warehouse. Each warehouse employee has an identification card. The forklift operator swipes 
his ID card before trying to start the forklift. The information from his card is sent back via wireless 
network to computer database and it checks to see if he has proper operator’s license, and that 
the license is current. If so, forklift can start. If not – the starter is disabled. 