1.6.7 Token Ring 
Token Ring is another form of network configuration. It differs from Ethernet in that all messages 
are transferred in one direction along the ring at all times. Token Ring networks sequentially pass 
a “token” to each connected device. When the token arrives at a particular computer (or device), 
the recipient is allowed to transmit data onto the network. Since only one device may be 
transmitting at any given time, no data collisions occur. Access to the network is guaranteed, and 
time-sensitive applications can be supported. However, these benefits come at a price. 
Component costs are usually higher, and the networks themselves are considered to be more 
complex and difficult to implement. Various PC vendors have been proponents of Token Ring 
networks. 

1.7 Networking and Ethernet Basics 
1.7.1 Protocols 
After a physical connection has been established, network protocols define the standards that 
allow computers to communicate. A protocol establishes the rules and encoding specifications for 
sending data. This defines how computers identify one another on a network, the form that the 
data should take in transit, and how this information is processed once it reaches its final 
destination. Protocols also define procedures for determining the type of error checking that will 
be used, the data compression method, if one is needed, how the sending device will indicate that 
it has finished sending a message, how the receiving device will indicate that it has received a 
message, and the handling of lost or damaged transmissions or “packets”. 
The main types of network protocols in use today are: TCP/IP (for UNIX, Windows NT, Windows 95 
and other platforms); IPX (for Novell NetWare); DECnet (for networking Digital Equipment Corp. 
computers); AppleTalk (for Macintosh computers), and NetBIOS/NetBEUI (for LAN Manager and 
Windows NT networks). 
Although each network protocol is different, they all share the same physical cabling. This 
common method of accessing the physical network allows multiple protocols to peacefully coexist 
over the network media, and allows the builder of a network to use common hardware for a 
variety of protocols. This concept is known as “protocol independence,” which means that devices 
which are compatible at the physical and data link layers allow the user to run many different 
protocols over the same medium.