3.9 JAVASCRIPT SWITCH STATEMENTS 
 
Sometimes, you will have more than one value to check for your variables. You can do 
the checking with a lot of if ... else statements. Or you can use something called a 
switch statement. Here is an example: 
 
var age = 17; 
switch (age)  
{ 
case 17: 
document.write("under 18"); 
break; 
case 24: 
document.write("over 18"); 
break; 
default:  
document.write("can't tell"); 
break; 
} 
 
In this example, we have set up a variable called age. We have then stored a value of 
17 in the age variable. The switch statement examines what this value is. If it is the 
case that age hold a value of 17 then its code gets executed. The break keyword is for 
escaping the switch statement. If you miss it out JavaScript will continue downwards 
and assume all your other cases are true, thus executing the rest of the case code. If 
none of your cases apply, a default value can be added. 
 
But note the syntax for the switch statement. The word switch is lowercase. After this, 
you have a pair of round brackets. Inside the round brackets you type a variable name 
or add a condition to test. This will be evaluated to either true or false, depending on 
which case matches. JavaScript will look at your list of cases and try to find a match. If 
it finds one, it executes that code. If it does not find one then the default option is 
executed. Take note where all the curly brackets and colons are. You have a pair of 

curly brackets for the entire switch statement. You have a colon after each case. 
 
However, switch statements in JavaScript are not very useful as they do not allow you 
to test a range of values very easily, or at all. If you were checking for age ranges you 
want to check things like 18 to 30, 31 to 50, etc. JavaScript switch statements do not 
allow you to do this, so you would have to have one case for each age - a lot of cases, 
in other words. They can be useful in limited situations, though, so they are worth 
knowing about. 
 