Figure 3.8 – The for loops to add up numbers from 1 to 10 

The first thing to notice here is that we are setting up variables to hold the start value 
of the loop and the end value. Loops are designed to go round and around a set 
number of times. You have to tell JavaScript how many times you want to go round. 
So you need a starting value, and an end value. There are many ways to set an end 
value, but here we are saying, "Keep going round in a loop until the start value is no 
longer less than the end value." But how does the loop know that the start value is 
less than the end value? It knows because we've set an increment value. It is this: 
start_value++ 

This is a shorthand way of saying "add 1 to the start_value variable". It is called 
incrementing a variable. The longhand way to increment a variable is this: 
start_value = start_value + 1 
If you do the calculation on the right hand side of the equal sign first, the line above 
will make more sense. JavaScript will look at what is currently in the start_value 
variable, and then add 1 to it. Once it is done that it will place the result into the 
variable on the left of the equal sign, erasing its contents and thus setting a new value. 
The result is that the start_value variable keeps increasing by 1 each time round the 
loop. 
 
You can also take 1 away from numbers with this: 
start_value-- 
 
Two minus signs after a variable are called the decrement operator. They deduct 1 
from whatever is in the variable. It is the same as saying this: 
start_value = start_value - 1 

To recap, the start value of the loop is whatever number we have put in the 
start_value variable; the end condition is when the start_value is no longer less than 
whatever value we have put in the end_value variable; and the way we get from one 
to the other is by incrementing the start_value variable. 
Now have a look at what is in the curly brackets of the loop: 
answer = answer + start_value; 
 
This is the whole point of having a loop - to run some code over and over again. 
 
We want to add up the numbers 1 to 10. So, again, do the calculation to the right of 
the equal sign first. JavaScript will look at whatever value is currently held in the 
answer variable. The first time round the loop this will be zero. (It is zero because we 
set it that way at the top of the code.) Add 1 to zero to get an answer of 1. This is then 
stored in the variable to the left of the equal sign. This is the answer variable again. 
The answer variable will have its contents erased and the new value (1) placed inside 
of it. 