However, although the SCRIPT tags are not case sensitive JavaScript very definitely is. 
Our code consists of a single line, a simple alert box. All it does is to display a dialogue 
box with the words "Hello World". Try it out. Save your work. Now use Windows 
Explorer or Finder on a Mac to navigate to where you saved the HTML file. Double click 
to run your script in a browser. You should see the following in Firefox: 

Figure 2.4 – Output on Firefox 
Or this in Internet Explorer: 
 
Figure 2.5 -Output on Internet Explorer 
 
Now change your alert line to this: 
Alert("Hello World") 
 
The word alert now has a capital "A". Save your work and reload the page in your 
browser. You should find that the alert box no longer displays. Change it back to a 
lowercase "a", save and reload. The alert box will come back. 
Alert Boxes are used to display information to your users. In between a pair of round 
brackets, you type the text you want people to see. This text goes between quote 
marks (single or double quotes, but not a mixture of the two). 

2.2.1 Confirm and Prompt 
As well as an alert box, you can have confirm and prompt boxes. Using a confirm box will get you 
two buttons, OK and Cancel. They are normally used with an IF Statements to detect which of the 
two buttons was clicked. You will learn about IF Statements in a later section, but the code for a 
Confirm box is just this: 

confirm("OK or Cancel?") 
 
Again, the text you want to display goes between quote marks. In a browser, the 
confirm box looks like this: 
 
Multimedia Resource 

Figure 2.6 – Confirm Box 
A prompt box is used when you want some input from the user. The code for a Prompt 
box is this: 
prompt("Favourite Colour?", "Red") 
 
The prompt box has two parts between the round brackets. The first part is the 
heading, while the second part is some default text. Figure 2.7 below shows what they 
look like in a browser: 
 
Figure 2.7 – Prompt box 

A user can enter some text in the text box. When the OK button is clicked you can get 
at the text the user entered and do something with it. You will see how to do this in 
the IF Statements section. 
 
For both confirm and prompt boxes lowercase letters are used.