6.1.3 User-Defined Objects 
All user-defined objects and built-in objects are descendants of an object called 
Object. 
 
6.1.3.1 The new Operator 
The new operator is used to create an instance of an object. To create an object, the 
new operator is followed by the constructor method. 
 
In the following example, the constructor methods are Object(), Array(), and Date(). 
These constructors are built-in JavaScript functions. 
var employee = new Object(); 
var books = new Array("C++", "Perl", "Java"); 
var day = new Date("August 15, 1947"); 
 
6.1.3.2 The Object() Constructor 
A constructor is a function that creates and initializes an object. JavaScript provides a 
special constructor function called Object() to build the object. The return value of the 
Object() constructor is assigned to a variable. 
 
The variable contains a reference to the new object. The properties assigned to the 
object are not variables and are not defined with the var keyword. 
 
Example 1: 
This example demonstrates how to create an object: 
 
Figure 6.1 – How to create an object 

Example 2: 
This example demonstrates how to create an object with a User-Defined Function. 
Here this keyword is used to refer to the object that has been passed to a function: 
 
Figure 6.2 – How to create an object with user defined functions 
 
6.1.4 Defining Methods for an Object 
The previous examples demonstrate how the constructor creates the object and 
assigns properties. But we need to complete the definition of an object by assigning 
methods to it. 
 
Example: 
Here is a simple example to show how to add a function along with an object: 
 
Figure 6.2 – How to add a function along with an object 

6.1.5 The with Keyword 

The with keyword is used as a kind of shorthand for referencing an object's properties 
or methods. The object specified as an argument to with becomes the default object 
for the duration of the block that follows. The properties and methods for the object 
can be used without naming the object. 
 
Syntax: 
with (object) 
{ 
  //properties used without the object name and dot 
} 
 
Example: 
 
Figure 6.3 – Using the with keyword to reference the object’s properties and 
methods 