The first line of the code stores the text "Kenny" into a variable called first_name. Next 
we have our IF Statement. The condition we are testing is between the round brackets: 
first_name == "Kenny" 
 
So we are checking to see whether or not the variable called first_name contains the 
word "Kenny". Notice that we now have two equal symbols (==) between the variable 
we want to check and the text we are checking for. The double equal symbols mean 
"has a value of". It is not assigning a value "Kenny" to the variable, like it would if there 
were only one equal symbol. The whole line, then, reads like this: "IF the variable 
called first_name has a value of Kenny". JavaScript will test the truth of that 
statement. Is it true, or is it false? It is indeed true. In which case JavaScript can go 
ahead and execute the code between the curly brackets. 
 
In fact try that code out. Create a new web page. Type the code above between your 
two JavaScript tags. Your code should then look like the one in Figure 3.5 below: 
 
 
Figure 3.5 – If statement 
Make sure you have the correct format for the new if statements (the correct syntax, 
as it is called). The first line, the one that starts with var, needs a single equal sign (=). 
This is because we are assigning a value of "Kenny" to the variable. In between the two 
round brackets of the IF statement, however, you need two equal signs (==). They 
mean "has a value of". You also need two curly brackets for IF statements. In between 
the curly bracket is where your code goes. 
 
Save your work and test the results in a browser. You should see the following printed 
to your page: 
First Name is Lungelo 
 
So we have Kenny written twice. The first time is because we typed "Kenny" between 
a pair of double quotes. The second time is because JavaScript writes whatever is in 
the variable first_name. To see why you need two double equal symbols, delete one 
of them from between the round brackets of the IF statements. Now change "Lungelo" 
to "Lenny": 

if ( first_name = "Lenny" )  
{ 
 
Save your changes and run the code again. This time, you'll see the following: 
First Name is Lungelo Lenny 
Even though we assigned a value of "Kenny" to the variable in the first line (var 
first_name = "Kenny") JavaScript has changed it to "Lenny". This is because we 
changed the double equal signs to a single equal sign in the IF statement. This assigns 
a new value to the variable.  
 
So be careful when typing out your conditions between the round brackets of an IF 
statement: two equal signs checks (compare) values and one equal sign assigns a value 
to a variable. 