If you’re running copper cables to get to this wide area network, you can certainly have 
examples of interference, especially inside of a building where we have so much electrical 
equipment and other devices that can cause RF interference. And if you’re communicating over 
a non-terrestrial link for your wide area network that means that you are leaving the earth and 
going up to a satellite in space and being bounced back down again. And that process takes 
time to get up to the satellite and back down to the remote site. And then, of course, the 
response has to go back up to space and back down to you again. 

So, if you’re working with an application that does not handle latency very well, then you 
probably don’t want to put it over a non-terrestrial link. If the wide area network connection is 
working the way it should, you could still have problems with the configuration of the protocols 
that are going over that wide area network. A good example of this is split horizon. This is a 
configuration you would set in the dynamic routing protocols that you’re using across this wide 
area network link. This is ideally designed to prevent any type of routing loop on the network. 
 
On a dynamically routed network, a router is going to advertise all of the routes that it knows 
to all of the other routers that are directly connected to it. These routes are going to be set 
periodically and you’re going to constantly make sure that everybody’s aware of all the routes 
that your router happens to know about. With split horizon, the router determines what routes 
have been learned over a particular interface, and it chooses not to advertise those routes back 
out to that location. That location already knows about the routes, and you’re able to conserve 
wide area network bandwidth by not sending a duplicate of those routes to a location that 
already knows that those routes exist. 
 
Another important configuration concern is with our domain name system servers. These DNS 
servers are there so we can reference devices by their name rather than having to memorize 
an IP address for every single device on the network. Well, of course, that’s a very important 
process. It’s one of the first things that happens when you’re trying to communicate to another 
device is to resolve the IP address from the name that you’re providing, and it’s these DNS 
servers that provide that for us. 

If a DNS server stops responding to us then we’re no longer able to resolve the IP address and 
therefore, cannot communicate to that other device. If the DNS server slows down, you may 
try to begin a communication, but it takes a number of seconds to finally resolve the IP address, 
and then the process can continue. And that slight delay can slow things up for everyone. The 
idea in most environments is that you would have multiple DNS servers, and you would be able 
to share the load and maintain the uptime across multiple DNS devices. 
 
On your router and wide area network devices themselves, we also have to be very aware of 
how they’re configured for WAN speeds and make sure that they match on both sides of the 
connection and of course the routing table in our wide area network routers is very important 
since that determines how we’re going to transfer information from one side of the network 
to the other.