3.3 Circuit Switching 
Switched circuits allow data connections that can be initiated when needed and terminated 
when communication is complete. This works much like a normal telephone line works for 
voice communication. Integrated Services Digital Network (ISDN) is a good example of circuit 
switching. When a router has data for a remote site, the switched circuit is initiated with the 
circuit number of the remote network. In the case of ISDN circuits, the device actually places 
a call to the telephone number of the remote ISDN circuit. When the two networks are 
connected and authenticated, they can transfer data. When the data transmission is 
complete, the call can be terminated. Circuit-Switched WAN Undergoes a Process Similar to 
That Used for a Telephone Call illustrates an example of this type of circuit. 
 
Figure 3.6 A Circuit-Switched WAN Undergoes a Process Similar to That Used for a Telephone 
Call 
 
IP can also be considered as a WAN technology in the packet switching environment. 
 
WAN Virtual Circuits 
A virtual circuit is a logical circuit created within a shared network between two network 
devices. Two types of virtual circuits exist: switched virtual circuits (SVCs) and permanent 
devices. Two types of virtual circuits exist: switched virtual circuits (SVCs) and permanent 
virtual circuits (PVCs). 
 
SVCs are virtual circuits that are dynamically established on demand and terminated when 
transmission is complete. Communication over an SVC consists of three phases: circuit 
establishment, data transfer, and circuit termination. The establishment phase involves 
creating the virtual circuit between the source and destination devices. Data transfer involves 
transmitting data between the devices over the virtual circuit, and the circuit termination phase 
involves tearing down the virtual circuit between the source and destination devices. SVCs are 
used in situations in which data transmission between devices is sporadic, largely because SVCs 
increase bandwidth used due to the circuit establishment and termination phases, but they 
decrease the cost associated with constant virtual circuit availability.

PVC is a permanently established virtual circuit that consists of one mode: data transfer. PVCs 
are used in situations in which data transfer between devices is constant. PVCs decrease the 
bandwidth use associated with the establishment and termination of virtual circuits, but they 
increase costs due to constant virtual circuit availability. PVCs are generally configured by the 
service provider when an order is placed for service.