One advantage to mirroring is that the servers involved can stand side by side or be positioned 
in different locations—in two different buildings of a company’s headquarters, or possibly 
even on opposite sides of a continent. One potential disadvantage to mirroring, however, is 
the time it takes for a mirrored server to assume the functionality of the failed server. This 
delay could last 15 to 90 seconds. Obviously, this downtime makes mirroring imperfect. When 
a server fails, users lose network service, and any data in transit at the moment of the failure 
is susceptible to corruption. Another disadvantage to mirroring is its toll on the network as 
data is copied between sites. Although server mirroring software can be expensive, the 
hardware costs of mirroring also mount because you must devote an entire server to simply 
acting as a “tape recorder” for all data in case the other server fails. Depending on the 
potential cost of losing a server’s functionality for any period of time, however, the expense 
involved may be justifiable 
 
Clustering  
Clustering is a fault-tolerance technique that links multiple servers together to act as a single 
server. In this configuration, clustered servers share processing duties and appear as a single 
server to users. If one server in the cluster fails, the other servers in the cluster automatically 
take over its data transaction and storage responsibilities. Because multiple servers can 
perform services independently of other servers, as well as ensure fault tolerance, clustering 
is more cost effective than mirroring for large networks. imagine that you and several 
colleagues (who are not exactly like you) are simultaneously giving separate talks in different 
rooms in the same conference center. All of your colleagues are constantly aware of your 
lecture, and vice versa. If you should faint during your lecture, one of your colleagues can 
immediately jump into your spot and pick up where you left off, without the audience ever 
noticing. At the same time, your colleague must continue to present his own lecture, which 
means that he must split his time between these two tasks.  