Wide Area Network (WAN) is a computer network covering multiple distance areas, which 
may spread across the entire world. WANs often connect multiple smaller networks, such as 
local area networks (LANs) or metro area networks (MANs). The world's most popular WAN is 
the Internet. Some segments of the Internet are also WANs in themselves. The key difference 
between WAN and LAN technologies is scalability. WAN must be able to grow as needed to 
cover multiple cities, even countries and continents. 
  
Figure 3.1 WANs Interconnect Users and LANs 
  
A set of switches and routers are interconnected to form a Wide Area Network. The switches 
can be connected in different topologies such as full mesh and half mesh. A wide area network 
may be privately owned or rented from a service provider, but the term usually connotes the 
inclusion of public (shared user) networks. 

Both packet switching and circuit switching technologies are used in the WAN. Packet 
switching allows users to share common carrier resources so that the carrier can make more 
efficient use of its infrastructure. In a packet switching setup, networks have connections into 
the carrier's network, and many customers share the carrier's network. The carrier can then 
create virtual circuits between customers' sites by which packets of data are delivered from 
one to the other through the network. 
 
Circuit Switching allows data connections to be established when needed and then terminated 
when communication is complete. This works like a normal telephone line works for voice 
communication. 
Integrated Services Digital Network (ISDN) is a good example of circuit switching. When a 
router has data for a remote site, the switched circuit is initiated with the circuit number of 
the remote network. 

Virtual private network (VPN) is a technology widely used in a public switched network (PSTN) 
to provide private and secured WAN for an organization. VPN uses encryption and other 
techniques to make it appear that the organization has a dedicated network, while making 
use of the shared infrastructure of the WAN.  
WAN technologies generally function at the lower three layers of the OSI reference model: 
the physical layer, the data link layer, and the network layer.

