4.3 SSL, VPN, IKEv2 and PPTP 

We will start with a rundown of the major differences between the different VPN protocols 
and how they affect you, before looking in more detail at the key concepts involved in 
cryptography, and how the NSA’s assault on encryption standards affects VPN users. 
 
PPTP 
Point-to-Point Tunnelling Protocol was developed by a consortium founded by Microsoft for 
creating VPN over dialup networks, and as such has long been the standard protocol for 
internal business VPN. It is a VPN protocol only and relies on various authentication methods 
to provide security (with MS-CHAP v2 being the most common). Available as standard on just 
about every VPN capable platform and device, and thus being easy to set up without the need 
to install additional software, it remains a popular choice both for businesses and VPN 
providers. The PPTP VPN protocol also has the advantage of requiring a low computational 
overhead to implement. 
 
Figure 4.2 PPTP  

PPTP (Point-to-Point Tunneling Protocol) is a Layer 2 protocol developed by Microsoft that 
expands on PPP by encapsulating it so that any type of PPP data can traverse the Internet 
masked as an IP transmission. PPTP supports the encryption, authentication, and access 
services provided by RRAS. Users can either dial directly into an RRAS access server that’s part 
of the VPN, or they can dial into their ISP’s remote access server first, then connect to a VPN. 
 
Either way, data is transmitted from the client to the VPN using PPTP. Windows, UNIX, Linux, 
and Macintosh clients are all capable of connecting to a VPN using PPTP. PPTP is easy to install 
and is available at no extra cost with Microsoft networking services. However, it provides less-
stringent security than other tunneling protocols. Another VPN tunneling protocol is L2TP 
(Layer 2 Tunneling Protocol), based on technology developed by Cisco and standardized by 
the IETF. It encapsulates PPP data in a similar manner to PPTP but differs in a few keyways. 
Unlike PPTP, L2TP is a standard accepted and used by multiple different vendors, so it can 
connect a VPN that uses a mix of equipment types—for example, a Juniper router, a Cisco 
router, and a Netgear router. Also, L2TP can connect two routers, a router and a remote access 
server, or a client and a remote access server. 
 
However, although now usually only found using 128-bit encryption keys, in the years since it 
was first bundled with Windows 95 OSR2 back in 1999, a number of security vulnerabilities 
have come to light, the most serious of which is the possibility of un-encapsulated MS-CHAP 
v2 Authentication. Using this exploit, PPTP has been cracked within 2 days, and although 
Microsoft has patched the flaw (through the use of PEAP authentication), it has itself issued a 
recommendation that VPN users should use L2TP/IPsec or SSTP instead. Knowing that the 
PPTP VPN protocol was insecure anyway, it came as no surprise to anybody that the NSA 
almost certainly decrypts PPTP encrypted communications as standard. Perhaps more 
worrying is that the NSA has (or is in the process of) almost certainly decrypted the vast 
amounts of older data it has stored, which was encrypted back when even security experts 
considered PPTP to be secure.