Figure 3.7 WAN Devices 
 
WAN Switch 
A WAN switch is a multiport internetworking device used in carrier networks. These devices 
typically switch such traffic as Frame Relay, X.25, and SMDS, and operate at the data link layer 
of the OSI reference model. Two Routers at Remote Ends of a WAN Can Be Connected by WAN 
Switches illustrates two routers at remote ends of a WAN that are connected by WAN switches. 
 
Figure 3.8 Two Routers at Remote Ends of a WAN Can Be Connected by WAN Switches 

Access Server 
An access server acts as a concentration point for dial-in and dial-out connections. An Access 
Server Concentrates Dial-Out Connections into a WAN illustrates an access server 
concentrating dial out connections into a WAN. 
 
Figure 3.9 An Access Server Concentrates Dial-Out Connections into a WAN 

Modem 
A modem is a device that interprets digital and analog signals, enabling data to be transmitted 
over voice-grade telephone lines. At the source, digital signals are converted to a form suitable 
for transmission over analog communication facilities. At the destination, these analog signals 
are returned to their digital form. A Modem Connection through a WAN Handles Analog and 
Digital Signals illustrates a simple modem-to-modem connection through a WAN. 
  
Figure 3.10 Modem Connection through a WAN Handles Analog and Digital Signals 
 
CSU/DSU 
A channel service unit/digital service unit (CSU/DSU) is a digital-interface device used to 
connect a router to a digital circuit like a T1. The CSU/DSU also provides signal timing for 
communication between these devices. The CSU/DSU Stands between the Switch and the 
Terminal illustrates the placement of the CSU/DSU in a WAN implementation. 
 
Figure 3.11 The CSU/DSU Stands between the Switch and the Terminal

ISDN Terminal Adapter 
An ISDN terminal adapter is a device used to connect ISDN Basic Rate Interface (BRI) 
connections to other interfaces, such as EIA/TIA-232 on a router. A terminal adapter is 
essentially an ISDN modem, although it is called a terminal adapter because it does not actually 
convert analog to digital signals. The Terminal Adapter Connects the ISDN Terminal Adapter to 
Other Interfaces illustrates the placement of the terminal adapter in an ISDN environment. 
 
Figure 3.12 The Terminal Adapter Connects the ISDN Terminal Adapter to Other Interfaces