3.4 Old versus New telecommunications Networks 
Commercialization of the telephone began in 1876, with instruments operated in pairs for 
private use between two locations. Users who wanted to communicate with persons at 
multiple locations had as many telephones as necessary for the purpose. Alerting another user 
of the desire to establish a telephone call was accomplished by whistling loudly into the 
transmitter until the other party heard the alert. Bells were soon added to stations for 
signalling, so an attendant no longer needed to wait for the whistle. 
 
Later telephones took advantage of the exchange principle already employed in telegraph 
networks. Each telephone was wired to a telephone exchange established for a town or area. 
For communications outside this exchange area, trunks were installed between exchanges. 
Networks were designed in a hierarchical manner until they spanned cities, countries, 
continents and oceans. Automation introduced pulse dialling between the telephone and the 
exchange, so that each subscriber could directly dial another subscriber connected to the same 
exchange, but long distance calling across multiple exchanges required manual switching by 
operators. Later, more sophisticated address signalling, including multi-frequency signalling 
methods, enabled direct-dialled long distance calls by subscribers, culminating in the Signalling 
System 7 (SS7) network that controlled calls between most exchanges by the end of the 20th 
century. 
 
The growth of the PSTN meant that tele-traffic engineering techniques needed to be deployed 
to deliver quality of service (QoS) guarantees for the users. The work of A. K. Erlang established 
the mathematical foundations of methods required to determine the capacity requirements 
and configuration of equipment and the number of personnel required to deliver a specific 
level of service.

In the 1970s the telecommunications industry began implementing packet switched network 
data services using the X.25 protocol transported over much of the end-to-end equipment as 
was already in use in the PSTN. In the 1980s the industry began planning for digital services 
assuming they would follow much the same pattern as voice services, and conceived end-to-
end circuit switched services, known as the Broadband Integrated Services Digital Network (B-
ISDN). The B-ISDN vision was overtaken by the disruptive technology of the Internet. 
 
At the turn of the 21st century, the oldest parts of the telephone network still use analog 
technology for the last mile loop to the end user. However, digital technologies such as DSL, 
ISDN, FTTx, and cable modems have become more common in this portion of the network. 
Several large private telephone networks are not linked to the PSTN, usually for military 
purposes. There are also private networks run by large companies which are linked to the PSTN 
only through limited gateways, such as a large private branch exchange (PBX).