CHAPTER 3: WAN TECHNOLOGIES  
 
3.1 Understanding WAN Technologies  
A WAN is owned by a service provider. A user must pay a fee to use the provider’s network 
services to connect remote sites. WAN service providers include carriers, such as a telephone 
network, cable company, or satellite service. Service providers provide links to interconnect 
remote sites for the purpose of transporting data, voice, and video. 
In contrast, LANs are typically owned by an organization. They are used to connect local 
computers, peripherals, and other devices within a single building or other small geographic 
area. 
 
WAN is a network that traverses some distance and usually connects LANs, whether across 
the city or across the nation. You are probably familiar with at least one WAN—the Internet, 
which is the largest WAN in existence. However, the Internet is not a typical WAN. Many WANs 
arise from the simple need to connect one location to another. As an organization grows, the 
WAN might grow to connect more and more sites, located across a city or around the world. 
Only an organization’s information technology budget and aspirations limit the dimensions of 
its WAN. 
Any business or government institution with sites scattered over a wide geographical area 
needs a way to exchange data between those sites.

Examples of where WANs are needed: 
 
● A bank with offices around the province needs to connect those offices to gather transaction 
and account information into a central database. Furthermore, it needs to connect with global 
financial clearing houses to, for example, conduct transactions with other institutions. 
● Regional sales representatives for a national pharmaceutical company need to submit their 
sales figures to a file server at the company’s headquarters and receive e-mail from the 
company’s mail server. 
● An automobile manufacturer in Detroit contracts out its plastic parts manufacturing to a 
Delaware-based company. Through WAN links, the auto manufacturer can video conference 
with the plastics manufacturer, exchange specification data, and even examine the parts for 
quality from a remote location. 
● A clothing manufacturer sells its products over the Internet to customers throughout the 
world.