Backup Strategy 
After selecting the appropriate tool for performing your servers’ data backups, devise a 
backup strategy to guide you and your colleagues in performing reliable backups that provide 
maximum data protection. This strategy should be documented in a common area where all 
IT staff can access it. The strategy should address at least the following questions: 

● What data must be backed up? 
● What kind of rotation schedule will backups follow? 
● At what time of day or night will the backups occur? 
● How will you verify the accuracy of the backups? 
● Where and for how long will backup media be stored? 
● Who will take responsibility for ensuring that backups occurred? 
● How long will you save backups? 
● Where will backup and recovery documentation be stored? 

Different backup methods provide varying levels of certainty and corresponding labour and 
cost. An important concept to understand before learning about different backup methods is 
the archive bit. An archive bit is a file attribute that can be checked (or set to “on”) or 
unchecked (or set to “off”) to indicate whether the file must be archived. When a file is created 
or changed, the operating system automatically sets the file’s archive bit to “on.” 
Various backup methods use the archive bit in different ways to determine which files should 
be backed up below is the list of different ways to backup:

● Full backup—All data on all servers is copied to a storage medium, regardless of whether 
the data is new or changed. After backing up the files, a full backup unchecks—or turns off—
the files’ archive bits. 
 
● Incremental backup—Only data that has changed since the last full or incremental backup 
is copied to a storage medium. An incremental backup saves only files whose archive bit is 
checked. After backing up files, an incremental backup unchecks the archive bit for every file 
it has saved. 
 
● Differential backup—Only data that has changed since the last backup is copied to a storage 
medium, and that information is then marked for subsequent backup, regardless of whether 
it has changed. In other words, a differential backup does not uncheck the archive bits for files 
it backs up. 