For the cabling phase: 
• Disconnect the current router that may be in place 
• Disconnect the broadband modem 
• Connect an Ethernet cable from one of the LAN ports on the broadband modem to the 
WAN 
(sometimes labelled "Internet" port) on the new router. 
• Connect an Ethernet cable from the LAN port of the new router to the Ethernet port of 
a powered off-laptop. 
• Power on in this order: broadband modem, router, and then laptop. 
• Wait for all appropriate lights on both the modem and router to indicate that the WAN 
and LAN statuses are connected. (The vendor's documentation will tell you what color the 
LEDs should be on the router and modem when connections are good.) 
Here's a tip if you are installing a router that was previously used on another network (a friend 
gives you a router they used in their home, for instance): after connecting cables, reset the 
router to its factory default settings, so you are not working with a routers that's already 
configured. The router's configuration settings may conflict with your existing network, so wipe 
it out and start configuration from scratch. 

The reset button is typically a tiny, recessed button on the side, rear panel, or sometimes at 
the bottom of a router's casing. You'll need a safety pin or similar pointy object to push the 
reset button in and hold it anywhere from 10 to 30 seconds. The lights on the router will usually 
flash once, indicating that the router has been restored back to factory default. You can easily 
find out how to reset your router in its documentation or by doing a Google search of the 
router's make and model and including "reset back to factory settings." 
That's the cabling part of a router setup. I like to make sure the broadband modem, be it, 
WiMAX, DSL, cable or whatever, is powered down before connecting a new router if I had a 
router connected to it previously. Sometimes modems will hold onto information of the 
previous router and giving it a hard reboot can head off any problems with connecting a new 
router. 