ESP is identified in the New IP header with an IP protocol ID of 50. 
The packet diagram below illustrates IPsec Tunnel mode with AH header: 
 
Figure 4.6 IPSec Tunnel mode with AH header  
 
The AH can be applied alone or together with the ESP, when IPsec is in tunnel mode. AH’s job 
is to protect the entire packet. The AH does not protect all of the fields in the New IP Header 
because some change in transit, and the sender cannot predict how they might change. The 
AH protects everything that does not change in transit. AH is identified in the New IP header 
with an IP protocol ID of 51. 

IPSEC TRANSPORT MODE 
IPsec Transport mode is used for end-to-end communications, for example, for 
communication between a client and a server or between a workstation and a gateway (if the 
gateway is being treated as a host). A good example would be an encrypted Telnet or Remote 
Desktop session from a workstation to a server. 
 
Figure 4.7 IPSec Transport mode  

Transport mode provides the protection of our data, also known as IP Payload, and consists 
of TCP/UDP header + Data, through an AH or ESP header. The payload is encapsulated by the 
IPsec headers and trailers. The original IP headers remain intact, except that the IP protocol 
field is changed to ESP (50) or AH (51), and the original protocol value is saved in the IPsec 
trailer to be restored when the packet is decrypted. 
IPsec transport mode is usually used when another tunnelling protocol (like GRE) is used to 
first encapsulate the IP data packet, then IPsec is used to protect the GRE tunnel packets. IPsec 
protects the GRE tunnel traffic in transport mode. The packet diagram below illustrates IPsec 
Transport mode with ESP header: 

Notice that the original IP Header is moved to the front. Placing the sender’s IP header at the 
front (with minor changes to the protocol ID), proves that transport mode does not provide 
protection or encryption to the original IP header and ESP is identified in the New IP header 
with an IP protocol ID of 50. 
 
Figure 4.9 Transport mode with AH header 

The AH can be applied alone or together with the ESP when IPsec is in transport mode. AH’s 
job is to protect the entire packet, however, IPsec in transport mode does not create a new IP 
header in front of the packet but places a copy of the original with some minor changes to the 
protocol ID therefore not providing essential protection to the details contained in the IP 
header (Source IP, destination IP etc.). AH is identified in the New IP header with an IP 
protocol ID of 51. In both ESP and AH cases with IPsec Transport mode, the IP header is 
exposed. 