3.2 Types of Packet-Switching Networks 
Packet switching is a WAN technology in which users share common carrier resources. 
Because this allows the carrier to make more efficient use of its infrastructure, the cost to the 
customer is generally much better than with point-to-point lines. In a packet switching setup, 
networks have connections into the carrier's network, and many customers share the carrier's 
network. The carrier can then create virtual circuits between customers' sites by which 
packets of data are delivered from one to the other through the network. The section of the 
carrier's network that is shared is often referred to as a cloud. 
Some examples of packet-switching networks include Asynchronous Transfer Mode (ATM), 
Frame Relay, Switched Multimegabit Data Services (SMDS), and X.25 Packets across a Carrier 
Network shows an example packet-switched circuit. 
The virtual connections between customer sites are often referred to as a virtual circuit. 
 
ATM: A dedicated-connection switching technology that organizes digital data into 53-byte 
cell units. Individually, a cell is processed asynchronously relative to other related cells and is 
queued before being multiplexed over the transmission path. Speeds on ATM networks can 
reach 10 Gbps.

How it works Imagine a "universal" machine—one that can take in any materials, whether 
they are delivered sporadically or in a constant stream and turn those materials into lookalike 
packages. That's basically how ATM works at the intake end. It takes in streams of data, voice, 
video…whatever…and packages the contents in uniform 53-byte cells. At the output end, ATM 
sends its cells out onto a WAN in a steady stream for delivery. 
That all seems simple enough, but now take a look at the "magic" of ATM in a little more 
technical detail. To begin with, remember that ATM is designed to satisfy the need to deliver 
multimedia. Well, multimedia covers a number of different types of information that have 
different characteristics and are handled differently, both by the devices that work with them 
and by higher-level networking protocols. Yet, in order to make use of ATM, something must 
interface with the different devices and must package their different types of data. ATM 
breaks data streams into fixed size cells and delivers them over a WAN.