OpenVPN 
OpenVPN is a fairly new open-source technology that uses the Open SSL library and 
SSLv3/TLSv1 protocols, along with an amalgam of other technologies, to provide a strong and 
reliable VPN solution. One of its major strengths is that it is highly configurable, and although 
it runs best on a UDP port, it can be set to run on any port, including TCP port 443. This makes 
traffic on it impossible to tell apart from traffic using standard HTTPS over SSL (as used by for 
example Gmail), and it is therefore extremely difficult to block. 
 
Another advantage of OpenVPN is that the Open SSL library used to provide encryption 
supports a number of cryptographic algorithms (e.g. AES, Blowfish, 3DES, CAST-128, Camellia 
and more), although VPN providers almost exclusively use either AES or Blowfish. 128-bit 
Blowfish is the default cipher built into OpenVPN, and although generally considered secure, 
it does have known weaknesses, and even its creator was quoted in 2007 as saying ‘at this 
point, though, I’m amazed it’s still being used. If people ask, I recommend Twofish instead’. 

AES is the newer technology, has no known weaknesses, and thanks to its adoption by the US 
government for use in protecting ‘secure’ data, is generally considered the ‘gold standard’ 
when it comes to encryption. The fact that it has a 128-bit block size rather than Blowfish’s 
64-bit block size also means that it can handle larger (over 1 GB) files better than Blowfish. 
However, both ciphers are NIST certified, which while not widely recognized as problem, we 
have issues with. 

How fast OpenVPN performs depends on the level of encryption employed, although 
technically speaking IPSec is faster than OpenVPN because encryption/decryption is 
performed in the kernel, and because it allows for multi-threading, which OpenVPN does not. 
 
OpenVPN has become the default VPN connection type, and while natively supported by no 
platform, is widely supported on most through third party software (including both iOS and 
Android). Compared to PPTP and L2TP/IPsec, OpenVPN can be a bit fiddly to set up (although 
this is a very subjective judgement.) When using generic OpenVPN software in particular (such 
as the standard open source OpenVPN client for Windows), it is necessary to not only 
download and install the client, but also to download and setup additional configuration files. 
Many VPN providers get around this configuration problem by supplying customized VPN 
clients.