Local Loop Services 
 
In telephony, a local loop is the wired connection from a telephone company's central office in 
a locality to its customers' telephones at homes and businesses. This connection is usually on 
a pair of copper wires called twisted pair. The system was originally designed for voice 
transmission only using analog transmission technology on a single voice channel. Today, your 
computer's modem makes the conversion between analog signals and digital signals. With 
Integrated Services Digital Network (ISDN) or Digital Subscriber Line (DSL), the local loop can 
carry digital signals directly and at a much higher bandwidth than they do for voice only. 
 
Figure 3.14 Local Loop 

3.6 Connecting WAN Wireless 
Most commonly, your router will connect to the Internet via fixed line (ADSL, VDSL, cable) or 
cellular (3G/4G/LTE) but the Vigor routers with wireless such as the DrayTek Vigor 2860n or 
DrayTek Vigor 2925ac can also use a Wi-Fi connection as its WAN (Internet)feed i.e. where you 
are in a location which provides Wi-Fi access (a hotel, a web café, someone else's office etc.) 
you can use that to provide the Vigor's Internet connection instead of a fixed line. 
Importantly, when using this feature, your own Wireless LAN still works - i.e. the wireless base 
facility provided to your laptops/phones/tablets by the Vigor router still works. 
 
Ideal for Emergencies 
With the Wireless WAN feature, you can now fall back to using the public Wi-Fi or your phone's 
tethering if your main WAN/Internet connection is lost (obviously assuming the public Wi-Fi 
hasn't suffered the same fate!). 
 
Figure 3.15 Connecting WAN Wireless 

The DrayTek router connects to the wireless network specified and provides internet access to 
clients connected to the DrayTek Vigor Router's LAN ports or Wireless network, applying any 
QoS, CSM or Firewall to these connections. 

This can be used as either a primary internet connection, load balanced with other WAN 
interfaces or as a backup internet connection, via the WAN2 interface which is switchable 
between Ethernet WAN and Wireless WAN modes. 
 
The WAN interface can be used in the same way as all other WAN interfaces on the router, it 
can be used for VPN, remote management or port forwarding, if the network that the router is 
connecting to allows this.