CHAPTER 4: Virtual Networks and Remote Access (Remote Desktop 
Connection) 
 
4.1 Accessing Remote services using RAS 
Remote Access Services (RAS) refers to any combination of hardware and software which 
allows you to connect from your computer at home or a remote location to your corporate 
network and work as if you are connected directly to the corporate network.  
Corporate users can connect to the corporate network using direct Dial-up network or through 
Virtual Private Network (VPN), where a low-cost intermediate network (such as the Internet) 
to connect to the corporate network. Microsoft Routing and Remote Access Services is an 
example for Remote Access Services (RAS). 
 
Dial-up networking is a Remote Access connection when a remote access client makes a no 
permanent, dial-up connection to a physical port on a Remote Access server by using the 
service of a third-party telecom service provider using analog phone or ISDN connection. 

Virtual Private Networking (VPN) is a logical, indirect connection between the Virtual Private 
Networking (VPN) client and the Virtual Private Networking (VPN) server over a low-cost 
public network such as the Internet. A Virtual Private Networking (VPN) client uses Virtual 
Private Networking (VPN) protocols called tunnelling protocols to make a virtual call to a 
virtual port on a Virtual Private Networking (VPN) server. 

4.2 VPN (Virtual Private Networks) 
  
Figure 4.1 VPN connection  
 
VPN is short for virtual private network and is pronounced as separate letters. A virtual private 
network (VPN) is a network that is constructed using public wires — usually the Internet — to 
connect to a private network, such as a company's internal network. There are a number of 
systems that enable you to create networks using the Internet as the medium for transporting 
data. It secures the private network as these systems use encryption and other security 
mechanisms to ensure that only authorized users can access the network and that the data 
cannot be intercepted. 

VPN - virtual private network 

VPN Privacy and Security 
A VPN is designed to provide a secure, encrypted tunnel in which to transmit the data between 
the remote user and the company network. The information transmitted between the two 
locations via the encrypted tunnel cannot be read by anyone else because the system contains 
several elements to secure both the company's private network and the outside network 
through which the remote user connects through. 
 
The first step to security is usually a firewall between the client and the host server, requiring 
the remote user to establish an authenticated connection with the firewall. Encryption is also 
an important component of a secure VPN. Encryption works by having all data sent from one 
computer encrypted in such a way that only the computer it is sending to can decrypt the 
data. 