Until the recent Edward Snowden revelations, it was generally assumed that 128 bit 
encryption was in practice uncrack able through brute force, and would be so another for 
another hundred years or so (taking Moore’s Law into account). In theory this still hold true, 
but the sheer scale of resources that the NSA seems to have thrown at cracking encryption 
has shaken many experts’ faith in these predictions, and system administrators around the 
world are scrambling to upgrade cipher key lengths.

It should be noted that the US government uses 256-bit encryption to protect ‘sensitive’ data 
(and 128-bit for ‘routine’ encryption needs). However, the method it uses is AES, which as we 
shall discuss below, is not without problems. 

Ciphers 
While encryption key length refers to the amount of raw of numbers involved, ciphers are the 
mathematics used to perform the encryption, and it is weaknesses in these algorithms, rather 
than in the key length, that often leads to encryption being broken? 
By far the most common ciphers that you will likely encounter with VPN are Blowfish and AES. 
In addition to this, RSA is used to encrypt and decrypt a cipher’s keys, and SHA-1 or SHA-2 are 
used as a hash function to authenticate the data. 
 
AES is now generally considered the most secure cipher for VPN use, and its adoption by the 
US government has only increased its perceived reliability, and consequently its popularity. 
However, there is reason to believe this trust may be misplaced.

4.4 Accessing a Remote Server 
Windows: Accessing Your Server with Remote Desktop 
Please note that this article pertains only for Windows server hosted with Liquid Web. Linux 
servers can access learn how to use SSH to access their server. 
On a normal Windows computer you have a keyboard, monitor, and mouse that allow you to 
interact with the machine. For Windows servers hosted on the Internet, things are a bit 
different because your server could physically be thousands of miles away. To access the 
desktop of an Internet-hosted server, Microsoft has created a feature known as Remote 

Desktop Supported Operating Systems 
All Liquid Web Windows servers are capable of Remote Desktop. However, not all client 
computers 
can use it. Here is a list of operating systems known to be capable of communicating with your 
Windows server with Remote Desktop: 
• Microsoft Windows 2000 Clients and Servers 
• Microsoft Windows XP Professional 
• Microsoft Windows 2003 Server 
• Microsoft Windows Vista Ultimate and Business Editions 
• Microsoft Windows 2008 Server 
• Microsoft Windows 7 and later 
• Linux with the RDesktop application installed 
(http://www.rdesktop.org/) 
• Mac OS X with a Remote Desktop client: 
(Mac OS X versions 10.9 and later: Microsoft Remote Desktop) 
(Mac OS X versions 10.5-10.8 only: Open Source CoRD Client) 
(Mac OS X versions prior to 10.7: Microsoft Remote Desktop Connection Client for 
Mac) 