For the configuration phase: 
The next part of setup is the software-based configuration. Increasingly, routers are allowing 
for wireless setup, the most efficient way to configure a router is to hard wire the router to 
laptop or computer you are using to set it up with. I do recommend using a laptop or desktop 
for setup. While vendors are bringing apps to market that will let you set up some routers with 
a mobile device, currently, using a full computer is the easiest option. This is because you have 
access to that machine's network settings, which is involved in the first step of configuring the 
router. 
 
First, the easiest way to get most routers configured is to match the network settings of the 
computer you are using to setup the router with the router's LAN network settings. Routers 
have two sets of network information: WAN and LAN. The WAN settings are related to the 
information received from the ISP that delivers your Internet connectivity. The LAN IP address 
is the router's IP address and is the address that determines by default, the IP addresses 
scheming of your internal home network. This is a private IP address not accessible from the 
Internet, only from your home network. It's also the IP address you type into a browser to get 
to its management software for configuration.  
 
When documentation refers to the router's IP address, this almost always means the LAN-side 
IP address. Because just about all consumer routers act as DHCP servers, they will give 
appropriate network information to any computer connected to them, matching the IP address 
information of the computer being used to set up the router, with the router's IP information. 
I have a Trendnet TEW-633GR router, and I want to get to the management interface. After the 
router is cabled properly and all the lights indicate the connections are active and good, I open 
a browser and type in the LAN IP address of the router. The LAN IP address is 192.168.3.1. What 
if I didn't have the documentation or an Internet connection to find out how to get into the 
management interface?