2.5 Server Mirroring 
 Mirroring is a fault-tolerance technique in which one device or component duplicates the 
activities of another. In server mirroring, one server continually duplicates the transactions 
and data storage of another. The servers involved must be identical machines using identical 
components. As you would expect, mirroring requires a highspeed link between the servers. 
It also requires software running on both servers that allows them to synchronize their actions 
continually and, in case of a failure, that permits one server to take over for the other. Server 
mirroring is considered to be a form of replication, a term that refers to the dynamic copying 
of data from one location to another. 
 
For example, suppose that you give a presentation to a large group of people, and the 
audience is allowed to interrupt you to ask questions at any time. You might talk for two 
minutes, wait while someone asked a question, answer the question, begin lecturing again, 
take another question, and so on. In this sense, you act like a primary server, busily 
transmitting and receiving information. Now imagine that your identical twin is standing in 
the next room and can hear you over a loudspeaker. 

Your twin was instructed to say exactly what you say as quickly as possible after you spoke, 
but to an empty room containing only a tape recorder. Of course, your twin must listen to you 
before imitating you. It takes time for the twin to digest everything you say and repeat it, 
so you must slow down your lecture and your room’s question-and-answer process. A mirrored server 
acts in much the same way. The time it takes to duplicate the incoming and outgoing data detrimentally 
affects network performance if the network handles a heavy traffic load. But if you should faint during your 
lecture, for example, your twin can step into your room and take over for you in very short 
order. The mirrored server also stands ready to assume the responsibilities of its counterpart.