Figure 3.19 Router information 
 
Now that the Internet connection is up and active and you have the LAN network information, 
the next step is to set up the wireless connection. Many newer wireless routers are shipping 
with the wireless networks already set up and will have the SSID (the name of the wireless 
network; two names if it's a dual-band router: one for the 2.4GHz signal and one for 5GHz) and 
the passphrase for accessing the wireless network pre-configured. 
 
To manually set up the wireless network, go into the wireless network settings within the 
router's management interface. In the Trendnet router, this is found under the "Basic" and 
then "Wireless" menu options: 
 
Figure 3.20 Wireless network settings  
 
To manually configure, give the wireless network a name, called the SSID. You need to name 
both the 2.5 GHz and 5 GHz wireless networks for dual-band routers. I will usually name the 
2.4 GHz something like "LinksysWiFi" and the 5GHz SSID, "LinksysWiFi_5GHz" for example. You 
want to select security. The security level (also called security mode or encryption mode) 
should be set to WPA2 except in rare cases of compatibility issues. The security settings are 
usually on the same where you name the wireless network. 
 
To complete wireless setup, select the 802.11mode. You can usually leave whatever the default 
settings are. I usually make the wireless mode at 2.4 GHz a mixed mode network, so that older 
devices that can't support 802.11n can connect to it. I also typically make 5 GHz an 802.11n-
only mode, because I save it for connecting newer 802.11n devices that support 5GHz and can 
take advantage of the 5GHz band's throughput. Settings such as channel width and wireless 
channel are best left at the defaults.

That's all there is to the basic setup of a wireless router. Of course, Wi-Fi routers have other 
features that can enhance a home network. Some have USB ports for connecting external 
drives to share data or to connect printers; many have Quality-of-Service (QoS) settings to 
enhance video streaming making Skype calls. Now that you have the basics of setting up a 
wireless router down, here are a links to tweaking routers to optimize a home or small business 
network 