4.5 IPsec 
IPSec’s protocol objective is to provide security services for IP packets such as encrypting 
sensitive data, authentication, and protection against replay and data confidentiality. 
As outlined in our IPSec protocol article, Encapsulating Security Payload (ESP) and 
Authentication. 
Header (AH) are the two IPSec security protocols used to provide these security services. 
Analysing the ESP and AH protocols is out of this article’s scope, however you can turn to our 
IPSec article where you’ll find an in-depth analysis and packet diagrams to help make the 
concept clear.

UNDERSTANDING IPSEC MODES –TUNNEL MODE & TRANSPORT MODE 
IPSec can be configured to operate in two different modes, Tunnel and Transport mode. Use 
of each mode depends on the requirements and implementation of IPSec. 
 
IPSEC MODE TUNNEL 
IPSec tunnel mode is the default mode. With tunnel mode, the entire original IP packet is 
protected by IPSec. This means IPSec wraps the original packet, encrypts it, adds a new IP 
header and sends it to the other side of the VPN tunnel (IPSec peer). Tunnel mode is most 
commonly used between gateways (Cisco routers or ASA firewalls), or at an end-station to a 
gateway, the gateway acting as a proxy for the hosts behind it. 
Tunnel mode is used to encrypt traffic between secure IPSec Gateways, for example two Cisco 
routers connected over the Internet via IPSec VPN. Configuration and setup of this topology 
is extensively covered in our Site-to-Site IPSec VPN article. 

Figure 4.4 IPSec Tunnelling Mode  
 
Another example of tunnel mode is an IPsec tunnel between a Cisco VPN Client and an IPSec 
Gateway (e.g. ASA5510 or PIX Firewall). The client connects to the IPsec Gateway. Traffic from 
the client is encrypted, encapsulated inside a new IP packet and sent to the other end. Once 
decrypted by the firewall appliance, the client’s original IP packet is sent to the local network. 
In tunnel mode, an IPsec header (AH or ESP header) is inserted between the IP header and 
the upper layer protocol. Between AH and ESP, ESP is most commonly used in IPSec VPN 
Tunnel configuration. 
The packet diagram below illustrates IPsec Tunnel mode with ESP header: 
 
 
Figure 4.5 IPSec Tunnel Mode with ESP header  