I could use the computer I have connected to the LAN port of the Trendnet router to find out 
the IP address of the Trendnet router, from the Windows 7 laptop I have connected via 
Ethernet to one the router's LAN ports: 
• I click the Windows 7 Start button and in the "Search programs and files" box, type 
"cmd" and click Enter. This pulls up the command line window. 
• At the prompt, I type ipconfig and click Enter. This is the result I get: 
 
Figure 3.16 ipconfig results 
 
• The IP address of the router is the Default Gateway address. So, in a browser, I type 
192.168.10.1 to get into the Trendnet router's management interface. 

Figure 3.17 Trendnet Routers Interface 
 
• You'll also need the username and password to get into the management interface to 
configure the router. Again, this information is in the router's documentation or can be 
had by performing a Google search. In general, most routers use Admin, as the user 
account and either admin, password, or no password (meaning just leave the field 
empty), as the password, but this can vary router to router. 
 
Many routers will have a setup wizard to walk you through configuration. Use that by all means, 
but if you want to manually set up the router, start by checking the WAN settings. Most ISP will 
provide the router the correct network information, so you usually have very little 
configuration to do on the WAN side in the management interface. If you go into "Internet" or 
"WAN" screens on the management interface in most routers will be set to "DCHP" and 
automatically receive the appropriate information needed to connect to the Internet from the 
ISP's network.

Figure 3.18 Basic router interface  
 
An exception to this may be those who have PPoE connections or those with static IP Internet 
accounts (maybe for a business). If you have either, or for some reason setting the WAN to 
DHCP in the management interface is not giving you an Internet connection, you will have to 
contact the ISP. 
In the image below, you can see the WAN information for the Trendnet router. The WAN IP 
address is 192.168.2.9. The LAN address is 192.168.10.1 and what was used to access the 
management interface in the browser. 