Optical Media  
A simple way to save data is by copying it to optical media, which is a type of media capable 
of storing digitized data and that uses a laser to write data to it and read data from it. 
Examples of optical media include all types of CDs, DVDs, and Blu-Ray discs. Backing up data 
to optical media requires only a computer with the appropriate recordable optical storage 
drive and a utility for writing data to the media. Such utilities often come with a computer’s 
operating system. If not, they are inexpensive and easy to find. 
 
Tape Backups In the early days of networking, the most popular method for backing up 
networked systems was tape backup or copying data to a magnetic tape. Tape backups 
require the use of a tape drive connected to the network (via a system such as a file server or 
dedicated, networked workstation), software to manage and perform backups, and, of 
course, backup media. The tapes used for tape backups resemble small cassette tapes, but 
they are higher quality, specially made to reliably store data. 
 
On a relatively small network, stand-alone tape drives might be attached to each server. On 
a large network, one large, centralized tape backup device might manage all of the 
subsystems’ backups. This tape backup device usually is connected to a computer other than 
a busy file server to reduce the possibility that backups might cause traffic bottlenecks. 
Extremely large environments (for example, global manufacturers with several terabytes of 
inventory and product information to safeguard) may require robots to retrieve and circulate 
tapes from a tape storage library, also known as a vault, that may be as large as a warehouse. 
 
External Disk Drives An external disk drive is a storage device that can be attached temporarily 
to a computer via its USB, PCMCIA, FireWire, or CompactFlash port. External disk drives are 
also known as removable disk drives. Small external disk drives are frequently used by laptop 
or desktop computer users to save and share data. After being connected to the computer, 
the external disk drives appear as any other drive, and the user can copy files directly to them. 
For backing up large amounts of data, however, network administrators are likely to use an 
external disk drive with backup control features, higher storage capacity, and faster read-
write access.