NAS (Network Attached Storage)  
NAS (network attached storage) is a specialized storage device or group of storage devices 
that provides centralized fault-tolerant data storage for a network. NAS differs from RAID in 
that it maintains its own interface to the LAN rather than relying on a server to connect it to 
the network and control its functions. In fact, you can think of NAS as a unique type of server 
dedicated to data sharing. The advantage to using NAS over a typical file server is that a NAS 
device contains its own file system that is optimized for saving and serving files (as opposed 
to also managing printing, authenticating logon IDs, and so on). Because of this optimization, 
NAS reads and writes from its disk significantly faster than other types of servers could. 
 
Another advantage to using NAS is that it can be easily expanded without interrupting service. 
For instance, if you purchased a NAS device with 400 GB of disk space, then six months later 
realized you need three times as much storage space, you could add the new 800 GB of disk 
space to the NAS device without requiring users to log off the network or taking down the NAS 
device. After physically installing the new disk space, the NAS device would recognize the 
added storage and add it to its pool of available reading and writing space. Compare this 
process with adding hard disk space to a typical server, for which you would have to take the 
server down, install the hardware, reformat the drive, integrate it with your NOS, and then 
add directories, files, and permissions as necessary. 
 
Although NAS is a separate device with its own file system, it still cannot communicate directly 
with clients on the network. When using NAS, the client requests a file from its usual file server 
over the LAN. The server then requests the file from the NAS device on the network. In 
response, the NAS device retrieves the file and transmits it to the server, which transmits it to 
the client. 
  
Figure 2.6 Network attached storage on a LAN  
© Cengage Learning 2023 
 
NAS is appropriate for enterprises that require not only fault tolerance, but also fast access 
for their data. For example, an ISP might use NAS to host its customers’ Web pages. Because 
NAS devices can store and retrieve data for any type of client (providing it can run TCP/IP), 
NAS is also appropriate for organizations that use a mix of different operating systems on their 
desktops. Large enterprises that require even faster access to data and larger amounts of storage might 
prefer storage area networks over NAS.