1. You use a text editor to create a C++ program following the rules, or syntax, of 
the high-level language. This program is called the source code, or source 
program. The program must be saved in a text file that has the extension .cpp. 
For example, if you saved the preceding program in the file named 
FirstCPPProgram, then its complete name is FirstCPPProgram.cpp. 
2. The C++ program given in the preceding section contains the statement 
#include . In a C++ program, statements that begin with the symbol # are called 
preprocessor directives. These statements are processed by a program 
called pre-processor. 
3. After processing preprocessor directives, the next step is to verify that the 
program obeys the rules of the programming language—that is, the program 
is syntactically correct—and translate the program into the equivalent machine 
language. The compiler checks the source program for syntax errors and, if no 
error is found, translates the program into the equivalent machine language. 
The equivalent machine language program is called an object program. Object 
program: The machine language version of the high-level language program. 

4. The programs that you write in a high-level language are developed using an 
integrated development environment (IDE). The IDE contains many 
programs that are useful in creating your program. For example, it contains the 
necessary code (program) to display the results of the program and several 
mathematical functions to make the programmer’s job somewhat easier. 
Therefore, if certain code is already available, you can use this code rather 
than writing your own code. Once the program is developed and successfully 
compiled, you must still bring the code for the resources used from the IDE into 
your program to produce a final program that the computer can execute.  
This prewritten code (program) resides in a place called the library. A program 
called a linker combines the object program with the programs from libraries. 
Linker: A program that combines the object program with other programs in the 
library and is used in the program to create the executable code. 
5. You must next load the executable program into main memory for execution. 
A program called a loader accomplishes this task. 
6. The final step is to execute the program. 