This illustrates that each object consists of data and operations on that data. An object 
combines data and operations on the data into a single unit. In OOD, the final program 
is a collection of interacting objects. A programming language that implements OOD 
is called an object-oriented programming (OOP) language. 
 
To work with objects, you need to know how to combine data and operations on the 
data into a single unit. In C11, the mechanism that allows you to combine data and 
operations on the data into a single unit is called a class. 
 
Finally, or some problems, the structured approach to program design will be very 
effective. Other problems will be better addressed by OOD. For example, if a problem 
requires manipulating sets of numbers with mathematical functions, you might use the 
structured-design approach and outline the steps required to obtain the solution. The 
C11 library supplies a wealth of functions that you can use effectively to manipulate 
numbers. On the other hand, if you want to write a program that would make a juice 
machine operational, the OOD approach is more effective. C11 was designed 
specially to implement OOD. Furthermore, OOD works well with structured design. 
Both the structured-design and OOD approaches require that you master the basic 
components of a programming language to be an effective programmer. 

1.4 PROBLEM ANALYSIS-CODING-EXECUTION CYCLE   
 
Programming is a process of problem solving. Different people use different 
techniques to solve problems. Some techniques are nicely outlined and easy to follow. 
They not only solve the problem, but also give insight into how the solution is reached. 
These problem-solving techniques can be easily modified if the domain of the problem 
changes. To be a good problem solver and a good programmer, you must follow good 
problem solving techniques. One common problem-solving technique includes 
analysing a problem, outlining the problem requirements, and designing steps, called 
an algorithm, to solve the problem. 

Algorithm: A step-by-step problem-solving process in which a solution is arrived at in 
a finite amount of time.  

In a programming environment, the problem-solving process requires the following 
three steps:  
 
1. Analyse and outline the problem and its solution requirements, and                    
design an algorithm to solve the problem. 
2. Implement the algorithm in a programming language, such as C11, and verify 
that the algorithm works. 
3. Maintain the program by using and modifying it if the problem domain changes. 
 
Figure 1-1 summarizes the first two steps of this programming process. 

FIGURE 1-1 Problem analysis-coding-execution cycle 