2.3 VARIABLE DECLARATION 
Earlier in this chapter, we introduced the term variable and how to declare it. We now 
review this concept and also give the general syntax to declare variables. In some 
programs, data needs to be modified during program execution. For example, after 
each test, the average test score and the number of tests taken changes. Similarly, 
after each pay increase, the employee’s salary changes. This type of data must be 
stored in those memory cells whose contents can be modified during program 
execution. In C++, memory cells whose contents can be modified during program 
execution are called variables.  
 
Variable: A memory location whose content may change during program execution. 
The syntax for declaring one variable or multiple variables is: 
 
2.3.1. Putting Data into Variables 
 
Now that you know how to declare variables, the next question is: How do you put data 
into those variables? In C++, you can place data into a variable in two ways:  

1. Use C++’s assignment statement. 
2. Use input (read) statements. 
 
In an assignment statement, the value of the expression should match the data type 
of the variable. 
The expression on the right side is evaluated, and its value is assigned to the variable 
(and thus to a memory location) on the left side. A variable is said to be initialized the 
first time a value is placed in the variable. 

Suppose you have the following variable declarations:  

int num1, num2;   
double sale;  
char first; 
string str;  
Now consider the following assignment statements:  
num1 = 4;  
num2 = 4 * 5 - 11;  
sale = 0.02 * 1000;  
first = 'D';  
str = "It is a sunny day."; 
 
For each of these statements, the computer first evaluates the expression on the right 
and then stores that value in a memory location named by the identifier on the left. 
The first statement stores the value 4 in num1, the second statement stores 9 in num2, 
the third statement stores 20.00 in sale, and the fourth statement stores the character 
D in first. The fifth statement assigns the string "It is a sunny day." to the variable str 
 
