Break and Continue Statements 

The break statement, when executed in a switch structure, provides an 
immediate exit from the switch structure. Similarly, you can use the break 
statement in while, for, and do. . .while loops to immediately exit from the loop 
structure. The break statement is typically used for two purposes:  
 To exit early from a loop.  
 To skip the remainder of the switch structure. 
After the break statement executes, the program continues to execute with the 
first statement after the structure. The use of a break statement in a loop can 
eliminate the use of certain (flag) variables. 
 
This while loop is supposed to find the sum of a set of positive numbers. If the data 
set contains a negative number, the loop terminates with an appropriate error 
message. This while loop uses the flag variable isNegative to signal the presence of 
a negative number. The variable isNegative is initialized to false before the while loop. 
Before adding num to sum, a check is made to see if num is negative. If num is 
negative, an error message appears on the screen and isNegative is set to true. In the 
next iteration, when the expression in the while statement is evaluated, it evaluates to false because 
!isNegative is false. (Note that because isNegative is true, !isNegative is false.) 
 
The continue statement is used in while, for, and do. . .while structures. When the 
continue statement is executed in a loop, it skips the remaining statements in the loop 
and proceeds with the next iteration of the loop. In a while and do. . .while structure, 
the expression (that is, the loop-continue test) is evaluated immediately after the 
continue statement. In a for structure, the update statement is executed after the 
continue statement, and then the loop condition (that is, the loop-continue test) 
executes. If the previous program segment encounters a negative number, the while 
loop terminates. If you want to discard the negative number and read the next number 
rather than terminate the loop, replace the break statement with the continue 
statement. 

It was stated earlier that all three loops have their place in C++ and that one loop can 
often replace another. The execution of a continue statement, however, is where the 
while and do. . .while structures differ from the for structure. When the continue 
statement is executed in a while or a do. . .while loop, the update statement may not 
execute. In a for structure, the update statement always executes. 

Nested Control Structures 
In this section, we give examples that illustrate how to use nested loops to 
achieve useful results and process data. 

Suppose you want to create the following pattern:  
* 
** 
*** 
**** 
***** 