3.4.3 For Looping Structure 
The C++ for looping structure discussed here is a specialized form of the while 
loop. Its primary purpose is to simplify the writing of counter-controlled loops. For 
this reason, the for loop is typically called a counted or indexed for loop. 
The general form of the for statement is: 
 
The initial statement, loop condition, and update statement (called for loop 
control statements) enclosed within the parentheses control the body 
(statement) of the for statement. 
 
The for loop executes as follows:  
    1. The initial statement executes. 
    2. The loop condition is evaluated.  
 
If the loop condition evaluates to true:  
            i. Execute the for loop statement.  
            ii. Execute the update statement (the third expression in the   
parentheses). 
 
 3. Repeat Step 2 until the loop condition evaluates to false. The initial statement 
usually initializes a variable (called the for loop control, or for indexed, variable). 
In C++, for is a reserved word. 

3.4.4 Do….while Looping Structure 
 
This section describes the third type of looping or repetition structure, called a 
do. . . while loop. 
 
The general form of a do. . .while statement is as follows: 
 
Of course, statement can be either a simple or compound statement. If it is a 
compound statement, enclose it between braces. Figure below shows the flow of 
execution of a do. . .while loop. 
 
In C++, do is a reserved word.  
 
The statement executes first, and then the expression is evaluated. If the expression 
evaluates to true, the statement executes again. As long as the expression in a do. . 
.while statement is true, the statement executes. To avoid an infinite loop, you must, 
once again, make sure that the loop body contains a statement that ultimately makes 
the expression false and assures that it exits properly 
 
In a while and for loop, the loop condition is evaluated before executing the body of 
the loop. Therefore, while and for loops are called pretest loops. On the other hand, 
the loop condition in a do. . .while loop is evaluated after executing the body of the 
loop. Therefore, do. . .while loops are called posttest loops.  
 
Because the while and for loops both have entry conditions, these loops may never 
activate. The do...while loop, on the other hand, has an exit condition and therefore 
always executes the statement at least once.