3.4 REPETITION 
There are many other situations in which it is necessary to repeat a set of statements. 
For example, for each student in a class, the formula for determining the course grade 
is the same. C++ has three repetition, or looping, structures that let you repeat 
statements over and over until certain conditions are met. This chapter introduces all 
three looping (repetition) structures. 
 
3.4.1 while Looping Structure 
 
In C++, while is a reserved word. Of course, the statement can be either a simple 
or compound statement. The expression acts as a decision maker and is usually 
a logical expression. The statement is called the body of the loop. Note that the 
parentheses around the expression are part of the syntax. 
 
The expression provides an entry condition to the loop. If it initially evaluates to 
true, the statement executes. The loop condition—the expression—is then 
reevaluated. If it again evaluates to true, the statement executes again. The 
statement (body of the loop) continues to execute until the expression is no 
longer true. A loop that continues to execute endlessly is called an infinite loop. 
To avoid an infinite loop, make sure that the loop’s body contains statement(s) 
that assure that the entry condition—the expression in the while statement—will 
eventually be false 

Designing while Loops 
 
The body of a while executes only when the expression, in the while statement, 
evaluates to true. Typically, the expression checks whether a variable, called the 
loop control variable (LCV), satisfies certain conditions. 
 
The LCV must be properly initialized before the while loop is encountered, and 
it should eventually make the expression evaluate to false.  

We do this by updating or assigning a new value to the LCV in the body of the 
while loop. Therefore, generally while loops are written in the following form: 

//initialize the loop control variable(s)  
while (expression) //expression tests the LCV  
{ .  
   .  
   . //update the LCV  
 } 
 

In this example, at Line 1, i is initialized to 20, which makes the expression i < 
20 in the while statement (Line 2) evaluate to false. Because initially the loop 
entry condition, i < 20, is false, the body of the while loop never executes. Hence, 
no values are output and the value of i remains 20. This example demonstrates 
the importance of the value to which the LCV is initialized. 