3.2.2 Using Pseudocode to Develop, Test and Debug a Program 
 
Sometimes pseudo provides a useful means to outline and refine a program before 
putting it into formal C++ code. When you are constructing programs that involve 
complex nested control structures, pseudo can help you quickly develop the correct 
structure of the program and avoid making common errors. One useful program 
segment determines the larger of two integers. If x and y are integers, using pseudo, 
you can quickly write the following: 
 
a. if (x > y) then  
    x is larger 
b. if (y > x) then  
     y is larger 

If the statement in (a) is true, then x is larger. If the statement in (b) is true, then y is 
larger. However, for this code to work in concert to determine the larger of two integers, 
the computer needs to evaluate both expressions:  
(x > y) and (y > x) 
even if the first statement is true. Evaluating both expressions when the first one is 
true is a waste of computer time. 
 
Let’s rewrite this pseudo as follows:  
 
 if (x > y) then  
             x is larger  
else  
          y is larger 

3.3 switch Structures  
Recall that there are two selection, or branch, structures in C++. The first selection 
structure, which is implemented with if and if. . .else statements, usually requires the 
evaluation of a (logical) expression. The second selection structure, which does not 
require the evaluation of a logical expression, is called the switch structure. C++’s 
switch structure gives the computer the power to choose from among many 
alternatives. 

The switch statement executes according to the following rules:  

1. When the value of the expression is matched against a case value (also called 
a label), the statements execute until either a break statement is found or the 
end of the switch structure is reached.  
2. If the value of the expression does not match any of the case values, the 
statements following the default label execute. If the switch structure has no 
default label and if the value of the expression does not match any of the case 
values, the action of the switch statement is null. 
3. A break statement causes an immediate exit from the switch structure. 
  
 
The following program illustrates the effect of the break statement. It asks the user to 
input a number between 0 and 7. 

