Comparing if…else Statements with a Series of if Statements 
Consider the following C++ program segments, both of which accomplish the same 
task program segment with if Statements only 

Program segment (a) is written as a sequence of if. 
. .else statements; 
program segment (b) is written as a series of if statements. 

Both program 
segments accomplish the same thing. If month is 3, then both program segments 
output March. If month is 1, then in program segment (a), the expression in the if 
statement in Line 1 evaluates to true. The statement (in Line 2) associated with this if 
then executes; the rest of the structure, which is the else of this if statement, is skipped; 
and the remaining if statements are not evaluated. In program segment (b), the 
computer has to evaluate the expression in each if statement because there is no else 
statement. As a consequence, program segment (b) executes more slowly than does 
program segment (a). In a sequence of if. . .else statements, such as (a), if more than 
one condition is true, only the statements associated with the first true condition will 
be executed. On the other hand, in a series of if statements, such as (b), if more than 
one condition evaluates to true, statements associated with each true condition will 
execute. 
 

Short-Circuit Evaluation (of a logical expression): 
A process in which the computer evaluates a logical expression from left to right and 
stops as soon as the final value of the expression is known. 

Conditional Operator (?) 
Certain if. . .else statements can be written in a more concise way by using C++’s 
conditional operator. The conditional operator, written as ?:, is a ternary operator, 
which means that it takes three arguments. The syntax for using the conditional 
operator is: 
 
This type of expression is called a conditional expression. The conditional expression 
is evaluated as follows: If expression1 evaluates to a nonzero integer (that is, to true), 
the result of the conditional expression is expression2. Otherwise, the result of the 
conditional expression is expression3 

Consider the following statements:  
if (a >= b)  
max = a; 
 else  
max = b; 
 You can use the conditional operator to simplify the writing of this if. . .else 
statement as follows: max = (a >= b) ? a : b; 
