To develop a program to solve a problem, you start by analyzing the problem. You 
then design the algorithm; write the program instructions in a high-level language, or 
code the program; and enter the program into a computer system. Analyzing the 
problem is the first and most important step. This step requires you to do the following: 
 
1. Thoroughly understand the problem.  
 
2. Understand the problem requirements. Requirements can include whether 
the program requires interaction with the user, whether it manipulates data, 
whether it produces output, and what the output looks like. If the program 
manipulates data,  
the programmer must know what the data is and how it is represented. That 
is, you need to look at sample data. If the program produces output, you 
should know how the results should be generated and formatted.  
 
. If the problem is complex, divide the problem into subproblems and repeat 
Steps 1 and 2. That is, for complex problems, you need to analyze each 
subproblem and understand each sub problem’s requirements. 
 
After you carefully analyze the problem, the next step is to design an algorithm to solve 
the problem. If you break the problem into subproblems, you need to design an 
algorithm for each subproblem. Once you design an algorithm, you need to check it 
for correctness. You can sometimes test an algorithm’s correctness by using sample 
data. At other times, you might need to perform some mathematical analysis to test 
the algorithm’s correctness. 
 
Once you have designed the algorithm and verified its correctness, the next step is to 
convert it into an equivalent programming code. You then use a text editor to enter the 
programming code or the program into a computer. Next, you must make sure that the 
program follows the language’s syntax. To verify the correctness of the syntax, you 
run the code through a compiler. If the compiler generates error messages, you must 
identify the errors in the code, remove them, and then run the code through the 
compiler again. When all the syntax errors are removed, the compiler generates the 
equivalent machine code, the linker links the machine code with the system’s 
resources, and the loader places the program into main memory so that it can be 
executed.