TOPIC 2: DIGITAL SAFETY AND SECURITY 

2.1 DIGITAL SECURITY RISKS 
A digital security risk is any event or action that could cause a loss of or damage to a computer or 
mobile device hardware, software, data, information, or processing capability. The more common 
digital security risks include Internet and network attacks, unauthorized access and use, hardware 
theft, software theft, information theft, and system failure. 

 Cybercrime 
Any illegal act involving the use of a computer or related devices generally is referred to as a 
computer crime. The term cybercrime refers to online or Internet-based illegal acts such as 
distributing malicious software or committing identity theft. Software used by cybercriminals 
sometimes is called crimeware.  
 
Cybercrime typically fall into one of these basic categories: 
 Hacker  
 Cracker 
 Script kiddie 
 Cyberextortionist 
 Cyber terrorist 

2.2 INTERNET AND NETWORK ATTACKS 
Information transmitted over networks has a higher degree of security risk than information kept on 
an organization’s premises. 

 Malware 
Malware, short for malicious software, consists of programs that act without a user’s knowledge and 
deliberately alter the operations of computers and mobile devices. A common way that computers 
and mobile devices become infected with viruses and other malware is through users opening 
infected email attachments. 
 Botnets 
A botnet is a group of compromised computers or mobile devices connected to a network.  A 
compromised computer or device, known as a zombie, is one whose owner is unaware the 
computer or device is being controlled remotely by an outsider. A bot is a program that performs a 
repetitive task on a network. 
 Denial of Service Attack 
A denial of service attack (DoS attack) disrupts computer access to an Internet service. A more 
devastating type of DoS attack is the distributed DoS attack (DDoS attack) in which 
 Back Doors 
A back door is a program or set of instructions in a program that allow users to bypass security 
controls when accessing a program, computer, or network. 
 Spoofing  
Spoofing is a technique intruders use to make their network or internet transmission appear 
legitimate to a victim computer network. Two common types of spoofing schemes are: 
 Email spoofing 
 IP spoofing 
 
