 Data Files 
 
A data file, often simply called a file, is a collection of related records stored on a storage medium, 
such as a hard drive, or on cloud storage. A Student file at a school might consist of thousands 
of individual student records. Each student record in the file contains the same fields.  
 
 File Maintenance 
File maintenance refers to the procedures that keep data current. File maintenance includes 
adding records to, modifying records in, and deleting records from a file. Users add new 
records to a file when they obtain additional data that should be stored, such as data about a 
new student admitted to a school. Generally, users modify a record in a file for two reasons:  
(1) to correct inaccurate data or  
(2) to update old data with new data, such as replacing a student’s address 
when she moves to a new address.  
When a record no longer is needed, a user deletes it from a file. For example, if a student was 
accepted for admission but later notifies the school that he chose to attend another college, 
the school might delete the student’s records from its database 

 Validating Data 
Validation is the process of comparing data with a set of rules or values to determine if the 
data meets certain criteria. Many programs perform a validity check that analyzes data, either 
as you enter the data or after you enter it, to help ensure that it is valid. For instance, when 
an admissions department specialist adds or modifies data in a student record, the DBMS 
tests the entered data to verify it meets certain criteria. 
If the data fails a validity check, the computer either should not allow the invalid data to be 
stored, or it should display an error message that instructs the user to enter the data again. 
Validity checks, sometimes called validation rules, reduce data entry errors and thus enhance 
the data’s integrity. 

Validation can be: 
 Alphabetic/numeric Check 
An alphabetic check ensures that users enter only alphabetic data into a field. A numeric 
check ensures that users enter only numeric data into a field. For example, data in a First 
Name field should contain only characters from the alphabet. Data in a Current Enrollment 
field should contain integers. 
 Range Check  
A range check determines whether a number is within a specified range. Assume the lowest 
per credit hour fee at the school is $75.00 and the highest is $370.75. A range check for the 
Credit Hour Fee field ensures it is a value between $75.00 and $370.75. 