4.2 NETWORKS 

A network is a collection of computers and devices connected together via communications 
devices and transmission media. A network can be internal to an organization or span the 
world by connecting to the Internet.  
Many home and business users create a network to facilitate communications, share 
hardware, share data and information, share software, and transfer funds; 
 Facilitate communications.  
Using a network, people communicate efficiently and easily via email, Internet messaging, 
chat rooms, blogs, wikis, online social networks, video calls, online meetings, 
videoconferences, VoIP, text messaging, and more. Some of these communications occur 
within an internal network. Other times, they occur globally over the Internet. 
 Share hardware.  
Each computer or device on a network can be provided access to hardware on the network. 
For example, each computer and mobile device user can access a printer on the network, as 
they need it. Thus, home and business users create networks to save money on hardware 
expenses. 
 Share data and information.  
Any authorized user can access data and information stored on a network. A large company, 
for example, might have a database of customer information. Any authorized employee can 
access the database using a computer or mobile device connected to the network. 
Most businesses use a standard, such as EDI (electronic data interchange), that defines how 
business documents travel across transmission media. For example, businesses use EDI to 
send bids and proposals, place and track orders, and send invoices. 
 Share software. 

Sending 
device
Transmission 
media
Receiving 
device

Users connected to a network can access software on the network. To support multiple users’ 
software access, vendors often sell versions of their software designed to run on a network 
or as a web app on the Internet. These network and Internet subscription versions usually 
cost less than buying individual copies of the software for each computer. The license fees for 
these programs typically are based on the number of users or the number of computers or 
mobile devices attached to the network. 