Popular tools used to plan and schedule the time relationships among project activities 
are Gantt and PERT charts. 

 A Gantt chart, developed by Henry L. Gantt, is a bar chart that uses horizontal bars 
to show project phases or activities. The left side, or vertical axis, displays the list 
of required activities. A horizontal axis across the top or bottom of the chart 
represents time. 
 Developed by the U.S. Department of Defense, a PERT chart, short for Program 
Evaluation and Review Technique chart, analyzes the time required to complete a 
task and identifies the minimum time required for an entire project. 
PERT charts, sometimes called network diagrams, can be more complicated to create than 
Gantt charts, but are better suited than Gantt charts for planning and scheduling large, 
complex projects. 
 Feasibility Assessment 
Feasibility is a measure of how suitable the development of a system will be to the 
organization. A project that is feasible at one point during system development might become 
infeasible at a later point. Systems analysts, therefore, frequently re-evaluate feasibility 
during the system development project. 
A systems analyst typically uses at least four tests to evaluate feasibility of a project: 
operational feasibility, schedule feasibility, technical feasibility, and economic feasibility. 

 Operational feasibility measures how well the proposed information system will 
work. Will the users like the new system? Will they use it? Will it meet their 
requirements? Will it cause any changes in their work environment? Is it secure? 
 
 Schedule feasibility measures whether the established deadlines for the project are 
reasonable. If a deadline is not reasonable, the project leader might make a new 
schedule. If a deadline cannot be extended, then the scope of the project might be 
reduced to meet a mandatory deadline. 
 
 Technical feasibility measures whether the organization has or can obtain the 
computing resources, software services, and qualified people needed to develop, 
deliver, and then support the proposed information system. For most information 
system projects, hardware, software, and people typically are available to support an 
information system. An organization’s choice for using computing resources and 
software services in-house or on the cloud may impact a system’s technical 
feasibility. 

 Economic feasibility, also called cost/benefit feasibility, measures whether the 
lifetime benefits of the proposed information system will be greater than its lifetime 
costs. A systems analyst often consults the advice of a business analyst, who uses 
many financial techniques, such as return on investment (ROI) and payback analysis, 
to perform a cost/benefit analysis. 