Green Computing Tips 

1. Conserve Energy 
 Use computers and devices that comply with the ENERGY STAR program. 
 Do not leave a computer or device running overnight. c. Turn off the monitor, printer, 
and other devices when not in use. 

2. Reduce Environmental Waste 
 Use paperless methods to communicate.  
 Recycle paper and buy recycled paper.  
 Recycle toner and ink cartridges, computers, mobile devices, printers, and other 
devices.  
 Telecommute.  
 Use videoconferencing and VoIP for meetings. 
Measures that organizations can use to reduce electrical waste: 
 Consolidate servers by using virtualization.  
 Purchase high-efficiency equipment.  
 Use sleep modes and other power management features for computers and devices. 
 Buy computers and devices with low power consumption processors and power supplies.  
 When possible, use outside air to cool the data center or computer facility. 
 
2.9 INFORMATION PRIVACY 
Information privacy refers to the right of individuals and companies to deny or restrict the 
collection, use, and dissemination of information about them. Organizations often use huge 
databases to store records, such as employee records, medical records, financial records, and more. 
Much of the data is personal and confidential and should be accessible only to authorized users. 
 Electronic Profiles 
 Cookies 
A cookie is a small text file that a web server stores on your computer. Cookie files typically contain 
data about you, such as your user name, postal code, or viewing preferences. Websites uses cookies 
for variety of purposes: 
 Most websites that allow for personalization use cookies to track user preferences.  
 Some websites use cookies to store user names and/or passwords, so that users do not need 
to enter this information every time they sign in to the website. 
 Online shopping sites generally use a session cookie to keep track of items in a user’s 
shopping cart. This way, users can start an order during one web session and finish it on 
another day in another session. Session cookies usually expire after a certain time, such as a 
week or a month. 
 Some websites use cookies to track how often users visit a site and the webpages they visit 
while at the website. 
 Websites may use cookies to target advertisements. These websites store a user’s interests 
and browsing habits in the cookie.