4.2 NETWORK COMMUNICATION STANDARDS AND PROTOCOLS 
For the different devices on various types of networks to be able to communicate, the 
network must use similar techniques of moving data through the network from one 
application to another.  
To alleviate the problems of incompatibility and ensure that hardware and software 
components can be integrated into any network, various organizations such as ANSI 
(American National Standards Institute) and IEEE (Institute of Electrical and Electronics 
Engineers) propose, develop, and approve network standards. A network standard defines 
guidelines that specify the way computers access the medium to which they are connected, 
the type(s) of medium used, the speeds used on different types of networks, and the type(s). 
A standard that outlines characteristics of how two devices communicate on a network is 
called a protocol. Specifically, a proto- col may define data format, coding schemes, error 
handling, and the sequence in which data transfers over a network. 

 Ethernet  
Ethernet is a network standard that specifies no central computer or device on the network 
(nodes) should control when data can be transmitted. That is, each node attempts to transmit 
data when it determines the network is available to receive communications.  
If two computers or devices on an Ethernet network attempt to send data at the same time, 
a collision will occur. When this happens, the computers or devices resend their messages 
until data transfer is successful. 
The Ethernet standard defines guidelines for the physical configuration of a network. Ethernet 
currently is the most popular network standard for LANs because it is relatively inexpensive 
and easy to install and maintain. Depending on the transmission media used, Ethernet 
networks have data transfer rates that range from 10 Mbps for home/small office users to 
100 Gbps for enterprise users. 

 Token Ring 
The token ring standard specifies that computers and devices on the network share or pass a 
special signal, called a token, in a unidirectional manner and in a preset order. A token is a 
special series of bits that functions like a ticket. The device with the token can transmit data 
over the network. Only one token exists per network. This ensures that only one computer 
transmits data at a time. 
The token ring standard specifies that computers and devices on the network share or pass a 
special signal, called a token, in a unidirectional manner and in a preset order. A token is a 
special series of bits that functions like a ticket. The device with the token can transmit data 
over the network. Only one token exists per network. This ensures that only one computer 
transmits data at a time. 