 TCP/IP 
Short for Transmission Control Protocol/Internet Protocol, TCP/IP is a network protocol that 
defines how messages (data) are routed from one end of a network to the other, ensuring the 
data arrives correctly. TCP/IP describes rules for dividing messages into small pieces, called 
packets; providing addresses for each packet; checking for and detecting errors; sequencing 
packets; and regulating the flow of messages along the network. 
TCP/IP has been adopted as the network standard for Internet communications. When a 
computer sends data over the Internet, the data is divided into packets. Each packet contains 
the data, as well as the recipient (destination), the origin (sender), and the sequence 
information used to reassemble the data at the destination.  
When a computer sends data over the Internet, the data is divided into packets. Each packet 
contains the data, as well as the recipient (destination), the origin (sender), and the sequence 
information used to reassemble the data at the destination. This technique of breaking a 
message into individual packets, sending the packets along the best route available, and then 
reassembling the data is called packet switching.  

 Wi-Fi 
Computers and devices that have the appropriate wireless capability can communicate via 
radio waves with other computers or devices using Wi-Fi (wireless fidelity), which identifies 
any network based on the 802.11 standards. Developed by IEEE, 802.11 is a series of net- 
work standards that specifies how two wireless devices communicate over the air with each 
other. Common standards include 802.11a, 802.11b, 802.11g, 802.11n, 802.11ac, 802.11ad, 
and 802. 
Wi-Fi sometimes is referred to as wireless Ethernet because it uses techniques similar to the 
Ethernet standard to specify how physically to configure a wireless network. Thus, Wi-Fi net- 
works easily can be integrated with wired Ethernet networks. When a Wi-Fi network accesses 
the Internet, it works in conjunction with the TCP/IP network standard. 

 Bluetooth 
Bluetooth is a network protocol that defines how two Bluetooth devices use short-range radio 
waves to transmit data. 
A Bluetooth device contains a small chip that allows it to communicate with other Bluetooth 
devices. For computers and devices not Bluetooth-enabled, you can purchase a Bluetooth 
wire- less port adapter that will convert an existing USB port into a Bluetooth port. Most 
current operating systems have built-in Bluetooth support. When connecting two devices 
using Bluetooth, the originating device sends a code to the connecting device. The codes must 
match to establish the connection. Devices that share a Bluetooth connection are said to be 
paired. 

 Advantages of Bluetooth 
 
Advantages of using Bluetooth technology include the following: 
o If a device has Bluetooth capability, using Bluetooth technology is free. 
o Although Bluetooth devices need to be near each other, they do not have to be in the 
same room, within the same line of sight, or facing each other. 
o Bluetooth devices typically require low processing power and use little energy, so 
using Bluetooth technology will not drain a device’s batteries. 
o Establishing a wireless Bluetooth connection is easy. With most Bluetooth-enabled 
devices, you simply tap or click a Bluetooth shortcut or icon to enable Bluetooth. Once 
enabled, the devices usually immediately recognize a connection. (Before initial use, 
you may need to pair two Bluetooth devices so that they can communicate with each 
other. 