1.7  FILE, DISK, AND SYSTEM MANAGEMENT TOOLS 
 File Manager 
A file manager is a tool that performs functions related to file management. Some of the file 
management functions that a file manager performs are displaying a list of files on a storage 
medium (Figure 4-27); organizing files in folders; and copying, renaming, deleting, moving, 
and sorting files. A folder is a specific named location on a storage medium that contains 
related files. Operating systems typically include a file manager. 
 
 Search Tools 
A search tool is a program, usually included with an operating system that attempts to locate 
a file, contact, calendar event, app or any other item stored on your computer or mobile 
device based on criteria you specify. Search tools can look through documents, photos, music, 
calendars, contacts, and other items on your computer or mobile device and/or on the 
Internet, combining search results in a single location. 
Search tools typically use an index to assist with locating items quickly. An index stores a 
variety of information about a file, including its name, date created, date modified, author 
name, and so on.  

 Image Viewer 
An image viewer is a tool that allows users to display, copy, and print the contents of a 
graphics file, such as a photo. With an image viewer, users can see images without having to 
open them in a paint or image editing program. Many image viewers include some photo 
editing capabilities. Most operating systems include an image viewer. 
 Uninstaller 
An uninstaller is a tool that removes a program, as well as any associated entries in the system 
files. When you install a program, the operating system records the information it uses to run 
the software in the system files. The uninstaller deletes files and folders from the hard drive, 
as well as removes program entries from the system files. 
 Disk Cleanup 
A disk cleanup tool searches for and removes unnecessary files. Unnecessary files may 
include downloaded program files, temporary Internet files, deleted files, and unused 
program files. Operating systems usually include a disk cleanup tool. 
 Disk Defragmenter 
A disk defragmenter is a tool that reorganizes the files and unused space on a computer’s hard disk so 
that the operating system accesses data more quickly and programs run faster. When an operating 
system stores data on a disk, it places the data in the first available sector (a storage location on a disk 
in the shape of an arc).  Fragmentation slows down file access and, thus, the performance of the entire 
computer. Defragmenting the disk, or reorganizing it so that the files are stored in contiguous sectors, 
solves this problem. 
 Screen Saver  
A screen saver is a tool that causes a display device’s screen to show a moving image or 
blank screen if no keyboard or mouse activity occurs for a specified time. When you press a 
key on the keyboard, tap the screen, or move the mouse, the screen saver disappears and 
the screen returns to the previous state. 