 Detailed Analysis 
 
Detailed analysis involves three major activities:  
(1) Study how the current system works,  
(2) Determine the users’ wants, needs, and requirements, and  
(3) Recommend a solution.  
Detailed analysis sometimes is called logical design because the systems analysts develop the 
proposed solution without regard to any specific hardware or software. That is, they make no 
attempt to identify the procedures that should be automated and those that should be 
manual. 
While studying the current system and identifying user requirements, the systems analyst 
collects a great deal of data and information. A major task for the systems analyst is to 
document these findings in a way that can be understood by everyone. Systems analysts use 
diagrams to describe the processes that transform inputs into outputs and diagrams that 
graphically show the flow of data in the system. Both users and IT professionals refer to this 
documentation. 
 
 The System Proposal  
After the systems analyst has studied the current system and determined all user 
requirements, the next step is to communicate possible solutions for the project in a system 
proposal. The purpose of the system proposal is to assess the feasibility of each alternative 
solution and then recommend the most feasible solution for the project, which often 
involves modifying or expanding the current system. The systems analyst presents the 
system proposal to the steering committee. If the steering committee approves a solution, 
the project enters the design phase. 

 Design Phase 
The design phase consists of two major activities:  
(1)  If necessary, acquire hardware and software and  
(2)  Develop all of the details of the new or modified information system. The systems 
analyst often performs these two activities at the same time instead of sequentially. 
When the steering committee approves a solution, the systems analyst begins the activity of 
obtaining additional hardware or software or evaluating cloud providers that offer the 
computing services to meet the organization’s needs.  
The systems analyst may skip this activity if the approved solution does not require new 
hardware or software. If this activity is required, it consists of four major tasks:  
(1)  Identify technical specifications,  
(2)  Solicit vendor proposals,  
(3)  Test and evaluate vendor proposals, and 
(4)  Make a decision. 
The systems analyst can use three basic types of documents for this purpose:  
 A request for quotation (RFQ) identifies the required product(s). With an RFQ, the 
vendor quotes a price for the listed product(s). 
 With a request for proposal (RFP), the vendor selects the product(s) that meets 
specified requirements and then quotes the price(s). 
 A request for information (RFI) is a less formal method that uses a standard form to 
request information about a product or service. 