 Database  
A database is a collection of data organized in a manner that allows access, retrieval, and use 
of that data. Database software is an application that allows users to create, access, and 
manage a database. Using database software, you can add, change, and delete data in a 
database; sort and retrieve data from the database; and create forms and reports using the 
data in the database.  
With most personal computer database programs, a database consists of a collection of 
tables, organized in rows and columns. Each row, called a record, contains data about a given 
item in the database, which is often a person, product, object, or event. Each column, called 
a field, contains a specific category of data within a record.  
The Publishing database consists of two tables: a Customer table and a Book Rep table. The 
Customer table contains 15 records (rows), each storing data about one customer. The 
customer data is grouped into 10 fields (columns): CU # (customer number), Customer Name, 
Street, City, State, Postal Code, Amount Paid, Current Due, Returns, and BR # (book rep 
number). The Current Due field, for instance, contains the amount of money the customer 
owes the publisher. The Customer and Book Rep tables relate to each other through a 
common field, BR # (book rep number). 

 Note Taking Software 
Note taking software is an application that enables users to enter typed text, handwritten 
comments, drawings, sketches, photos, and links anywhere on a page and then save the 
page as part of a notebook. Users also can include audio recordings as part of their notes. 
 Calendar and Contact Management 
Calendar and contact management software is an application that helps you organize your 
calendar, keep track of contacts, and share this information with other users, who can view it 
on their computers and mobile devices. This software provides a way for individuals and 
workgroups to organize, find, view, and share appointment and contact information easily. 
Although sometimes available separately, calendar and contact management software often 
exists as a unit in a single program. 
 Software Suite 
A software suite is a collection of individual related applications available together as a unit. 
Productivity software suites typically include, at a minimum, word processing, presentation, 
spreadsheet, and email applications. 
 Project Management 
Project management software is an application that allows a user to plan, schedule, track, 
and analyze the events, resources, and costs of a project. Project management software helps 
calendar, keep track of contacts, and share this information with other users, who can view it 
on their computers and mobile devices. This software provides a way for individuals and 
workgroups to organize, find, view, and share appointment and contact information easily. 
Although sometimes available separately, calendar and contact management software often 
exists as a unit in a single program.

 Accounting Software 
Accounting software is an application that helps businesses of all sizes record and report their financial 
transactions. With accounting software, business users perform accounting activities related 
to the general ledger, accounts receivable, accounts payable, purchasing, invoicing, and 
payroll functions.  
Accounting software also enables business users to write and print checks, track checking 
account activity, and update and reconcile balances on demand. Most accounting software 
supports online credit checks, bill payment, direct deposit, and payroll services. Some offer 
more complex features, such as job costing and estimating, time tracking, multiple company 
reporting, foreign currency reporting, and forecasting the amount of raw materials needed 
for products.  
 
