 Documentation 
During system development, project members produce a large amount of documentation. 
Documentation is the collection and summarization of data, information, and deliverables. It 
is important that all documentation be well written, thorough, consistent, and 
understandable. The final information system should be reflected accurately and completely 
in documentation developed throughout the development project. Maintaining up-to-date 
documentation should be an ongoing part of system development.  

 Data and information gathering techniques 
During system development, members of the project team gather data and information. They 
need accurate and timely data and information for many reasons. They must keep a project 
on schedule, evaluate feasibility, and be sure the system meets requirements. Systems 
analysts and other IT professionals use several techniques to gather data and information. 
They review documentation, observe, survey, interview, conduct joint-application design 
sessions, and research. 
 Review documentation: By reviewing documentation such as organization charts, 
memos, and meeting minutes, systems analysts learn about the history of a project. 

Documentation also provides information about the organization, such as its 
operations, weaknesses, and strengths. 
 Observe: Observing people helps systems analysts understand exactly how they 
perform a task. Likewise, observing a machine allows you to see how it works. 
 Survey: To obtain data and information from a large number of people, systems 
analysts distribute surveys. 
 Interview: The interview is the most important data and information gathering 
technique for the systems analyst. It allows the systems analyst to clarify responses 
and probe during face-to-face feedback.  
 JAD sessions: Instead of a single one-on-one interview, analysts often use joint-
application design sessions to gather data and information. A joint-application design 
(JAD) session, or focus group, consists of a series of lengthy, structured group 
meetings in which users and IT professionals work together to design or develop an 
application 