6.3 DATABASE MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS 
A database management system (DBMS), or database program, is software that allows you 
to create, access, and manage a database. Managing a company’s databases requires a 
great deal of coordination. The database administrator (DBA) is the person in the 
organization who is responsible for managing and coordinating all database activities, 
including development, maintenance, and permissions. DBMSs are available for many sizes 
and types of computers. Whether designed for a small or large computer, most DBMSs 
perform common functions.  

FUNCTIONS OF DBMS 
 Data Dictionary 
A data dictionary, sometimes called a repository, contains data about each file in the 
database and each field in those files. A DBMS uses the data dictionary to perform 
validation checks to maintain the integrity of the data. When users enter data, the data 
dictionary verifies that the entered data matches the field’s data type. The data dictionary 
also can limit the type of data that can be entered, often allowing a user to select from a list.  

 File Retrieval and Maintenance 
A DBMS provides several tools that allow users and programs to retrieve and maintain data 
in the database. To retrieve or select data in a database, you query it. A query is a request 
for specific data from the database. Users can instruct the DBMS to return or store the 
results of a query. The four more commonly used are query languages, query by example, 
forms, and report writers. Another method is by importing data.  
Read How To 11-1 for instructions about importing spreadsheet data into a database 
and vice versa. 
A DBMS provides several tools that allow users and programs to retrieve and maintain data 
in the database. 

 Query language 
A query language consists of simple, English-like statements that allow users to specify the 
data they want to display, print, store, update, or delete. Each query language has its own 
formats and vocabulary. 
Structured Query Language (SQL pronounced S-Q-L or sequel) is a popular query language 
that allows users to manage, update, and retrieve data. SQL has special keywords and rules 
that users include in SQL statements.  

 Query by Example 
Most DBMSs include query by example (QBE), a feature that has a graphical user interface 
to assist users with retrieving data.  

 Form 
 
A form, sometimes called a data entry form, is a window on the screen that provides areas for 
entering or modifying data in a database. 
 
 Report Writer  
A report writer, also called a report generator, allows users to design a report on the 
screen, retrieve data into the report design, and then dis- play or print the report. Unlike a 
form, you use a report writer only to retrieve data. Report writers usually allow you to 
format page numbers and dates; titles and column headings; subtotals and totals; and fonts, 
font sizes, color, and shading; and to include images. 