3.5 ENTERPRISE STORAGE 
Enterprise hardware allows large organizations to manage and store data and information using 
devices intended for heavy use, maximum efficiency, and maximum availability. The availability of 
hardware to users is a measure of how often it is online. Enterprise storage often uses Fibre Channel 
(FC) technology as the interface that connects the devices to the network because FC technology has 
much faster transmission rates than SCSI and other previously discussed interfaces. 
 NAS and SAN 
Network attached storage (NAS) is a server that is placed on a network with the sole purpose of 
providing storage to users, computers, and devices attached to the network. A network attached 
storage server, often called a storage appliance, has its own IP address, usually does not have a 
keyboard or display, and contains at least one hard drive, often configured in a RAID. Administrators 
can add storage to an existing network quickly by connecting a network attached storage server to a 
network. 

A storage area network (SAN) is a high-speed network with the sole purpose of providing 
storage to other attached servers. 
 
 Tape  
Tape is a magnetically coated ribbon of plastic capable of storing large amounts of data and 
information. Tape no longer is used as a primary method of storage. Instead, businesses use 
tape most often for long- term storage and backup. 
Comparable to a cassette recorder, a tape drive reads from and writes on a magnetic tape. 
Although older computers used reel-to-reel tape drives, today’s tape drives use tape 
cartridges. 
 Magnetic stripe card 
A magnetic stripe card has a magnetic stripe that contains information. The information in 
the stripe often includes your name, account number, and the card’s expiration date. When 
you swipe the card through a magstripe reader, discussed in the previous chapter, it reads 
information stored on the stripe.

 Smart Cards 
A smart card, which is an alternative to a magnetic stripe card, stores data on an integrated 
circuit embedded in the card.  
circuit embedded in the card.  
Two types of smart cards, also called chip cards, are: 
 contact and  
 Contactless 
When you insert a contact smart card in a specialized card reader, the information on the 
smart card is read and, if necessary, updated. Contactless smart cards communicate with a 
reader using a radio frequency, which means the user simply places the card near the 
reader. 

 RFID Tags 
The RFID tag consists of an antenna and a memory chip that contains the information to be 
transmitted via radio waves. RFID tags are either active or passive. An active RFID Tag contains 
a battery that runs the chip’s circuitry and broadcasts a signal to the RFID reader. A passive 
RFID tag does not contain a battery and, thus, cannot send a signal until the reader activates 
the tag’s antenna by sending out electromagnetic waves. 
 NFC Chips and Tags 
NFC is a technology (based on RFID) that uses close-range radio signals to transmit data 
between two NFC-enabled devices or an NFC-enabled device and an NFC tag. NFC-enabled 
devices include smartphones, digital cameras, computers, televisions, and terminals. An NFC-
enabled 