 Data Security 
Most organizations and people realize that data is one of their more valuable assets. To 
ensure that data is accessible on demand, an organization must manage and protect its data 
just as it would any other resource. Thus, it is vital that the data is kept secure.  
A DBMS provides means to ensure that only authorized users can access data. In addition, 
most DBMSs allow different levels of access privileges to be identified for each field in the 
data- base. Access privileges define the actions that a specific user or group of users can 
perform on the data. 
A DMBS provides a variety of techniques to restore the database to a usable form in case it is 
damaged or destroyed 
 Backup and Recovery 
Occasionally, a database is damaged or destroyed because of hardware failure, a problem 
with the software, human error, or a catastrophe, such as fire or flood. A DBMS provides a 
variety of techniques to restore the database to a usable form in case it is damaged or 
destroyed. 
 A backup, or copy, of the entire database should be made on a regular basis. Some 
DBMSs have their own built-in backup tools. Others require users to purchase a 
separate backup program, or use one included with the operating system. 
 More complex DBMSs maintain a log, which is a listing of activities that modify the 
contents of the database. If a registration department specialist modifies a student’s 
address, for example, the change appears in the log. 
 A DBMS recovery utility uses logs and/or backups, and either a rollforward or a 
rollback technique, to restore a database when it becomes damaged or destroyed. In 
a roll forward, also called forward recovery, the DBMS uses the log to re enter changes 
made to the database since the last save or backup. In a rollback, also called backward 
recovery, the DBMS uses the log to undo any changes made to the database during a 
certain period. The rollback restores the database to its condition prior to the failure. 
Depending on the type of failure, the DBMS determines which type of recovery 
technique to use. 
 Continuous backup is a backup plan in which changes are backed up as they are made. 
This backup technique can cost more than other backup strategies but is growing in 
popularity for businesses whose data must be available at all times, because it 
provides recovery of damaged data in a matter of seconds. Organizations such as 
hospitals, communications companies, and financial institutions often use continuous 
backup. 