 Coxial 
Coaxial cable, often referred to as coax (pronounced KO-ax), consists of a single copper 
wire surrounded by at least three layers:  
(1) An insulating material,  
(2) A woven or braided metal, and  
(3) A plastic outer coating 
CATV network wiring often uses coaxial cable because it can be cabled over longer 
distances than twisted-pair cable. 
 
 Fibre Optic 
The core of a fiber-optic cable consists of dozens or hundreds of thin strands of glass or 
plastic that use light to transmit signals. Each strand, called an optical fiber, is as thin as a 
human hair. Inside the fiber-optic cable, an insulating glass cladding and a protective coating 
surround each optical fiber.  
Fiber-optic cables have the following advantages over cables that use wire, such as twisted-
pair and coaxial cables: 
 Faster data transmission  
 Less susceptible to noise (interference) from other devices, such as a copy machine  
 Better security for signals during transmission because they are less susceptible to 
noise 
 Smaller size (much thinner and lighter weight) 
Disadvantages of fiber-optic cable are it cladding costs more than twisted-pair or coaxial 
cable and can be difficult to install and modify. Despite these limitations, many phone 
companies replaced original analog phone lines with fiber-optic cables, enabling them to 
offer fiber-optic Internet access to home and business users. B 

4.8 WIRELESS TRANSMITTED  
Wireless transmission media send communications signals through the air or space. Many 
users opt for wireless transmission media because it is more convenient than installing 
cables. In addition to convenience, businesses use wireless transmission media in locations 
where it is impossible to install cables. 

Types of wireless transmission media used in communications include infrared, broadcast 
radio, cellular radio, microwaves, and communications satellites. 
 Infrared 
Infrared (IR) is a wireless transmission medium that sends signals using infrared light waves. 
Mobile computers and devices, such as a mouse, printer, and smartphone, may have an 
IrDA port that enables the transfer of data from one device to another using infrared light 
waves. 

 Broadcast Radio 
Broadcast radio is a wireless transmission medium that distributes radio signals through the 
air over long distances, such as between cities, regions, and countries, and short distances, 
such as within an office or home.  
For radio transmissions, you need a transmitter to send the broadcast radio signal and a 
receiver to accept it. To receive the broadcast radio signal, the receiver has an antenna that 
is located in the range of the signal. Some networks use a transceiver, which both sends and 
receives signals from wireless devices. Broadcast radio is slower and more susceptible to noise 
than physical transmission media, but it provides flexibility and portability. 
Bluetooth, UWB, and Wi-Fi communications technologies discussed earlier in this chapter use 
broadcast radio signals. Bluetooth and UWB are alternatives to infrared communications, 
with the latter designed for high-bandwidth transmissions. Hot spots use Wi-Fi. 
 Cellular Radio 
Cellular radio is a form of broadcast radio that is in wide use for mobile communications, 
specifically wireless modems and mobile phones. A mobile phone uses high- frequency radio 
waves to transmit voice and digital data messages. Because only a limited number of radio 
frequencies exist, mobile service providers reuse frequencies so that they can accommodate 
the large number of users. Some users install an amplifier or booster to improve the signal 
strength. 
