 Networks Architecture 
The configuration of computers, devices, and media on a network is sometimes called the 
network architecture. Two examples of network architectures are client/server or peer-to-
peer. 
 Client Server 
On a client/server network, one or more computers act as a server, and the other computers 
on the network request services from the server. A server, sometimes called a host computer, 
controls access to the hardware, software, and other resources on the network and provides 
a centralized storage area for programs, data, and information. The clients are other 
computers and mobile devices on the network that rely on the server for its resources. For 
example, a server might store an organization’s email messages. Clients on the network, 
which include any users’ connected computers or mobile devices, access email messages on 
the server.  
Both wired and wireless networks can be configured as a client/server network. 
Although it can connect a smaller number of computers, a client/ server network architecture 
typically provides an efficient means to connect 10 or more computers. Most client/server 
networks require a person to serve as a network administrator because of the large size of 
the network. 

 Peer-to-Peer 
A peer-to-peer (P2P) network is a simple, inexpensive network architecture that typically 
connects fewer than 10 computers. Each computer or mobile device, called a peer, has equal 
responsibilities and capabilities, sharing hardware (such as a printer), data, or information 
with other computers and mobile devices on the peer-to-peer network.  

A peer-to-peer (P2P) network is a simple, inexpensive network architecture that typically 
connects fewer than 10 computers. Each computer or mobile device, called a peer, has equal 
responsibilities and capabilities, sharing hardware (such as a printer), data, or information 
with other computers and mobile devices on the peer-to-peer network. Peer-to-peer 
networks allow users to share resources and files located on their computers and to access 
shared resources found on other computers on the network. Peer-to-peer networks do not 
have a common file server. Instead, all computers can use any of the resources available on 
other computers on the network. 

 Communication Software 
Communications software consists of programs and apps that: 
(1) Help users establish a connection to another computer, mobile device, or network;  
(2) Manage the transmission of data, instructions, and information; and  
(3) Provide an interface for users to communicate with one another.  

The first two often are provided by or included as tools with an operating system or bundled 
with a communications device. The third is provided by applications such as email, FTP, 
browser, discussion boards, chat rooms, Internet messaging, videoconferencing, and VoIP. 
Some routers, for example, contain firmware for various protocols. Other communications 
devices require separate communications software to ensure proper transmission of data. 
Communications software works with the network standards and protocols (presented in a 
later section) to ensure data moves through the network or the Internet correctly. 