 INSTALLING SOFTWARE 
During installation of software or before the first use, a program or app may ask you to 
register and/or activate the software. Software registration typically is optional and usually 
involves sub- mitting your name and other personal information to the software 
manufacturer or developer. Registering the software often entitles you to product support. 
Product activation is a technique that some software manufacturers use to ensure that you 
do not install the software on more computers than legally licensed. 
 
1.2 PRODUCTIVITY APPLICATION 
Productivity applications can assist you in becoming more effective and efficient while 
performing daily activities at work, school, and home. Productivity applications include word 
processing, presentation, spreadsheet, database, note taking, calendar and contact 
management, project management, accounting, personal finance, legal, tax preparation, 
document management, and enterprise computing. 

 Development of a Project 
During the process of developing a project, you likely will switch back and forth among the 
following activities: 

 Word Processing 
Word processing software, sometimes called a word processor, is an application that allows 
users to create and manipulate documents containing mostly text and sometimes graphics 
writing business letters? Millions of people use word processing software on their computers 
and mobile devices every day to develop documents such as letters, memos, reports, mailing 
labels, writing newsletters, and webpages.

 Advantages of Word Processing 
o A major advantage of using word processing software is that it enables users 
to change their written words easily.  
o Word processing software also has many features to make documents look 
professional and visually appealing. 
o Most word processing software allows users to incorporate graphics, such as 
digital photos and clip art, in documents. 
o With word processing software, you easily can modify the appearance of an 
image after inserting it in the document. 
o You can use word processing software to define the size of the paper on which 
to print and to specify the margins. 