Advantages of Database Approach 
 Reduced data redundancy:  
Most data items are stored in only one file, which greatly reduces duplicate data. For example, 
a school’s database would record a student’s name and address only once. When student 
data is entered or changed, one employee makes the change once.   
 Improved data integrity:  
When users modify data in the database, they make changes to one file instead of multiple 
files. Thus, the database approach increases the data’s integrity by reducing the possibility of 
introducing inconsistencies. 
 Shared data:  
The data in a database environment belongs to and is shared, usually over a network, by the 
entire organization. This data is independent of, or separate from, the programs that access 
the data. Organizations that use databases typically have security settings to define who can 
access, add, modify, and delete the data in a database. 
 Easier access:  
The database approach allows nontechnical users to access and maintain data, provided they 
have the necessary privileges. Many computer users also can develop smaller databases 
themselves, without professional assistance. 
 Reduced development time:  
It often is easier and faster to develop programs that use the database approach. Many 
DBMSs include several tools to assist in developing programs, which further reduces the 
development time. 

Disadvantages of Database Approach 
 A database can be more complex than a file processing system. People with special 
training usually develop larger databases and their associated applications.  
 Databases also require more memory and processing power than file processing 
systems. 
 Data in a database can be more vulnerable than data in file processing systems 
because it can store a lot of data in a single physical file. Many users and programs 
share and depend on this data. If the database is not operating properly or is 
damaged or destroyed, users may not be able to perform their jobs.  
 Further, unauthorized users potentially could gain access to a single database file 
that contains several data files of personal and confidential data. To protect their 
database resource, individuals and companies should establish and follow security 
procedures. 