 Transfer funds.  
Electronic funds transfer (EFT) allows users connected to a network to exchange money from 
one account to another via transmission media. Both businesses and consumers use EFT. 
Examples include wire transfers, use of credit cards and debit cards, direct deposit of funds 
into bank accounts, online banking, and online bill payment. 
 LANs, MANs, WANs and PANs 
A local area network (LAN) is a network that connects computers and devices in a limited 
geographical area. A wireless LAN (WLAN) is a LAN that uses no physical wires. Each 
computer or device on the network, called a node, often shares resources, such as printers, 
large hard drives, and programs. Often, the nodes are connected via cables. 
A wireless LAN (WLAN) is a LAN that uses no physical wires. Computers and devices that 
access a wireless LAN must have built-in wireless capability or the appropriate wireless 
network card, USB adapter, or other wireless device. A WLAN may communicate with a 
wired LAN for access to its resources, such as software, hardware, and the Internet.  

MAN  
MAN A metropolitan area network (MAN) is a high-speed network that connects local area 
networks in a metropolitan area, such as a city or town, and handles the bulk of communica- 
tions activity across that region. A MAN typically includes one or more LANs, but covers a 
smaller geographic area than a WAN. Local and state governments, for example, regulate 
some MANs. Phone companies, cable television providers, and other organizations provide 
users with connections to the MAN. 

WAN 
A wide area network (WAN) is a network that covers a large geographic area (such as a city, 
country, or the world) using a variety of wired and wireless transmission media. A WAN can 
be one large network or can consist of multiple LANs connected together. The Internet is 
the world’s largest WAN. 
PAN 
A personal area network (PAN) is a network that connects computers and devices in an 
individual’s workspace using wired and wireless technology. Devices include smartphones, 
digital cameras, printers, and more. A PAN may connect devices through a router using 
network cables or directly using special USB cables. PANs also may use Bluetooth or Wi-Fi 
technology. A body area network (BAN), sometimes called a body sensor network (BSN), is a 
type of PAN that wirelessly connects sensors worn by, carried by, implanted in, or attached 
to a human body. 