 Shareware  
It is copyrighted software that is distributed at no cost for a trial period. To use a 
shareware program beyond that period, you send payment to the software developer or 
you might be billed automatically unless you cancel within a specified period of time. 
Some developers trust users to send payment if software use extends beyond the stated 
trial period. Others render the software useless if no payment is received after the trial 
period expires. In some cases, a scaled-down version of the software is distributed free, 
and payment entitles the user to the fully functional product.

 Freeware  
It is copyrighted software provided at no cost by an individual or a company that retains 
all rights to the software. Thus, software developers typically cannot incorporate freeware 
in applications they intend to sell. The word, free, in freeware indicates the software has 
no charge. Open source software is software provided for use, modification, and 
redistribution. This software has no restrictions from the copyright holder regarding 
modification of the software’s internal instructions and its redistribution.  
 Open source software  
Usually open source software can be downloaded from a web server on the Internet, 
often at no cost. Promoters of open source software state two main advantages: users 
who modify the software share their improvements with others, and customers can 
personalize the software to meet their needs. Public-domain software has been 
donated for public use and has no copyright restrictions. Anyone can copy or distribute 
public-domain software to others at no cost. 
 A mobile web app  
It is a web app that is optimized for display in a browser on a mobile device, regardless of 
screen size or orientation. Many app developers opt for web delivery because they do not 
have to create a different version for each mobile device’s app store. Many web apps use 
a responsive design, which means the app displays properly on any computer or device. 
 