 Spyware, Adware, and Other Malware Removers 

Spyware is a type of program placed on a computer or mobile device without the user’s 
knowledge that secretly collects information about the user and then communicates the 
information it collects to some outside source while the user is online. Spyware can enter 
your computer when you install a new program, through a graphic on a webpage or in an 
email message, or through malware. 
Adware is a type of program that displays an online advertisement in a banner or pop-up or 
pop-under window on webpages, email messages, or other Internet services. Sometimes, 
Internet advertising firms hide spyware in adware.

A spyware remover is a type of program that detects and deletes spyware and similar pro- 
grams. An adware remover is a program that detects and deletes adware. Malware removers 
detect and delete spyware, adware, and other malware. 

 Internet Filters 

Filters are programs that remove or block certain items from being displayed. Four widely 
used Internet filters are anti-spam programs, web filters, phishing filters, and pop-up and pop-
under blockers. Spam is an unsolicited email message or posting sent to many recipients or 
forums at once. Spam is considered Internet junk mail. The content of spam ranges from 
selling a product or service, to promoting a business opportunity, to advertising offensive 
material. Spam also may contain links or attachments that contain malware. 
An anti-spam program is a filtering program that attempts to remove spam before it reaches 
your inbox or forum. If your email program does not filter spam, many anti-spam programs 
are available at no cost on the web. ISPs often filter spam as a service for their subscribers. 
Web filtering software is a program that restricts access to certain material on the web. Some 
restrict access to specific websites; others filter websites that use certain words or phrases. 
Many businesses use web filtering software to limit employee’s web access. Some schools, 
libraries, and parents use this software to restrict access to websites that are not educational. 
Phishing is a scam in which a perpetrator sends an official looking email message that 
attempts to obtain your personal and/or financial information. Some phishing messages ask 
you to reply with your information; others direct you to a phony website or a pop-up or 
pop-under window that looks like a legitimate website, which then collects your 
information. 
A phishing filter is a program that warns or blocks you from potentially fraudulent or 
suspicious websites. Some browsers include phishing filters.