1.3 GRAPHICS AND MEDIA APPLICATIONS 
Graphics and media applications include computer-aided design, desktop publishing, paint/ 
image editing, photo editing and photo management, video and audio editing, multimedia 
and website authoring, media players, and disc burning. 

 Computer-Aided Design 
Computer-aided design (CAD) software is a type of application that assists professionals and 
designers in creating engineering, architectural, and scientific designs and models. For 
example, engineers create design plans for vehicles and security systems. Architects design 
building structures and floor plans. 
 Desktop  Publishing 
Desktop publishing software (DTP software) is an application that enables designers to create 
sophisticated publications that contain text, graphics, and many colors. Professional DTP 
software is ideal for the production of high-quality color projects such as textbooks, corporate 
newsletters, marketing literature, product catalogs, and annual reports. Designers and 
graphic artists can print finished publications on a color printer, take them to a professional 
printer, or post them on the web in a format that can be viewed by those without DTP 
software. 
 Paint/Image Editing 
Paint software, also called illustration software, is an application that allows users to draw 
pictures, shapes, and other graphics with various on-screen tools, such as a pen, brush, eye- 
dropper, and paint bucket. Image editing software is an application that provides the 
capabilities of paint software and also includes the capability to enhance and modify existing 
photos and images. 
 Photo editing and Photo Management 
Photo editing software is a type of image editing software that allows users to edit and 
customize digital photos. With photo editing software, users can retouch photos, crop images, 
remove red-eye, erase blemishes, restore aged photos, add special effects, enhance image 
quality, change image shapes, color-correct images, straighten images, remove or rearrange 
objects in a photo, add layers, and more. With photo management software, you can view, 
organize, sort, catalog, print, and share digital photos. Some photo editing software includes 
photo management functionality. Many online photo storage services enable you to create 
scrapbooks — selecting photos, adding captions, selecting backgrounds, and more. 
 Video and Audio Editing Software 
Video editing software is an application that allows professionals to modify a segment of a 
video, called a clip. Video editing software typically includes audio editing capabilities. Audio 
editing software is an application that enables users to modify audio clips, produce studio-
quality soundtracks, and add audio to video clips.
 Multimedia and Website Authoring 
Multimedia authoring software allows users to combine text, graphics, audio, video, and 
animation in an interactive application. Website authoring software helps users of all skill 
levels create related webpages that include graphics, video, audio, animation, special effects 
with interactive content, and blog posts. In addition, many website authoring programs allow 
users to organize, manage, and maintain websites. Website authoring software often has 
capabilities of multimedia authoring software. 
 Media Player 
A media player is a program that allows you to view images and animations, listen to audio, 
and watch video files on your computer or mobile device. Media players also may enable you 
to organize media files by genre, artist, or other category; create playlists; convert files to 
different formats; connect to and purchase media from an online media store or market-
place; stream radio stations’ broadcasting over the Internet; download podcasts; burn audio 
CDs; and transfer media to portable media players. 
 Disc Burning 
Disc burning software writes text, graphics, audio, and video files on a recordable or 
rewritable disc. This software enables home users easily to back up contents of their hard 
drive on an optical disc (CD/DVD) and make duplicates of uncopyrighted music or movies. 
Disc burning software usually also includes photo editing, audio editing, and video editing 
capabilities. 