 Personal Finance Software 
Personal finance software is a simplified accounting application that helps home users and 
small/home office users balance their checkbooks, pay bills, track personal income and 
expenses, verify account balances, transfer funds, track investments, and evaluate financial 
plans.  

Most personal finance software includes financial planning features, such as analyzing home 
and personal loans, preparing income taxes, and man- aging retirement savings. Other 
features include managing home inventory and setting up budgets. Most of these applications 
also offer a variety of online services, such as online banking and online investing. 
Read Secure IT 4-2 for safety tips when using personal finance apps on your smartphone 
or other mobile device. 

 Legal Software 
Legal software is an application that assists in the preparation of legal documents and 
provides legal information to individuals, families, and small businesses. Legal software 
provides standard contracts and documents associated with buying, selling, and renting 
property; estate planning; marriage and divorce; and preparing a will or living trust.
 Tax Preparation Software 
Tax preparation software is an application that can guide individuals, families, or small 
businesses through the process of filing federal and state taxes. These programs forecast tax 
liability and offer money-saving tax tips, designed to lower your tax bill. Some tax preparation 
programs also allow you to file your tax forms electronically, a process called e-filing. 
 Document Management  
Document management software is an application that provides a means for sharing, 
distributing, and searching through documents by converting them into a format that can be 
viewed by any user. The converted document, which mirrors the original document’s 
appearance, can be viewed and printed without the software that created the original 
document. Some document management software allows users to edit content and add 
comments to the converted document. 
 Enterprise Computing 
A large organization, commonly referred to as an enterprise, requires special computing 
solutions because of its size and geographic distribution. A typical enterprise consists of a 
wide variety of departments, centers, and divisions collectively known as functional units. 
Software used in functional units is not mutually exclusive; however, each functional unit in 
an enterprise uses specific software, as outlined below. 
Human resources software manages employee information, such as pay rate, benefits, 
personal information, performance evaluations, training, and vacation time. 
 Accounting software manages everyday transactions, such as sales and payments to 
suppliers. Finance software helps managers budget, forecast, and analyze. 
 Engineering or product development software allows engineers to develop plans for 
new products and test their product designs. 
 Manufacturing software assists in the assembly process, as well as in scheduling and 
managing the inventory of parts and products. 
 Marketing software allows marketing personnel to create marketing campaigns, 
target demographics, and track their effectiveness. 
 Sales software enables the salesforce to manage contacts, schedule meetings, log 
customer interactions, manage product information, and take customer orders. 
 Distribution software analyzes and tracks inventory and manages product shipping 
status. 
 Customer service software manages the day-to-day interactions with customers, 
such as phone calls, email messages, web interactions, and messaging sessions. 
 Information technology staff use a variety of programs and apps to maintain and 
secure the hardware and software in an enterprise.  
 
 