TOPIC 5: DATA, DATABASE SYSTEMS AND PROGRAM/APP DEVELOPMENTS 
 
DATABASES, DATA, AND INFORMATION 
A database is a collection of data organized in a manner that allows access, retrieval, and use 
of that data. Computers process data in a database to generate information for users. A 
database at a school, for example, contains data about its students and classes. When 
students are accepted to a school, they typically complete an online admission form that is 
displayed as a form in a browser.  
With database software, often called a database management system (DBMS), users create 
a computerized database; add, modify, and delete data in the database; sort and retrieve data 
from the database; and create forms and reports from the data in the database. 
 
 The Hierarchy of data 
Data is organized in levels. Information technology (IT) professionals classify data in a hierarchy. Each 
higher level of data consists of one or more items from the lower level. Depending on the application 
and the user, different terms describe the various levels of the hierarchy. 
 Characters 
A bit is the smallest unit of data the computer can process. Eight bits grouped together in 
a unit constitute a byte. In the ASCII coding scheme, each byte represents a single 
character, which can be a number (4), letter (R), blank space (spacebar), punctuation mark 
(?), or other symbol (&). 

 Fields 

A field is a combination of one or more related characters or bytes and is the smallest unit 
of data a user accesses. A field name uniquely identifies each field. When searching for 
data in a database, you often specify the field name. For example, field names for the data 
in the Instructor file are Instructor ID, First Name, Last Name, Extension, Office, and Email 
Address. The data type specifies the kind of data a field can contain and how the field is 
used. 
 
 Records 
A record is a group of related fields. For example, a student record includes a set of fields 
about one student. A primary key is a field that uniquely identifies each record in a file. The 
data in a primary key is unique to a specific record. For example, the Student ID field uniquely 
identifies each student because no two students can have the same student ID. In some files, 
the primary key consists of multiple fields, called a composite key. For example, the primary 
key for the Schedule of Classes file could consist of the fields Semester Code, Class Code, and 
Class Section, which together would uniquely identify each class listed in a schedule. 
