 A feature, called word wrap, allows users to type words in a paragraph continually without
pressing the enter key at the end of each line. While you edit a paragraph or change the
paragraph margins, the words in the paragraph automatically wrap, or reflow within the
paragraph. As you type more lines of text than can be displayed on the screen, the top
portion of the document moves upward, or scrolls, off the screen.

 Presentation software
Presentation software is an application that allows users to create visual aids for
presentations to communicate ideas, messages, and other information to a group. The
presentations can be viewed as slides, sometimes called a slide show, that are displayed on a
Create a project
Edit a project

Format a project Save a project Distribute a project
large monitor or on a projection screen from a computer or mobile device. This software also
provides a variety of layouts for each individual slide such as a title slide, a two-column slide,
and a slide with clip art, a chart, a table, or a diagram. In addition, you can enhance any text,
charts, and graphics on a slide with 3-D effects, animation, and other special effects, such as
shading, shadows, and textures.

When building a presentation, users can set the slide timing so that the presentation
automatically displays the next slide after a preset delay. Presentation software allows you to
apply special effects to the transition between slides. One slide, for example, might fade away
as the next slide appears.

Presentation software typically includes a clip gallery that provides images, photos, video
clips, and audio clips to enhance presentations. Some audio and video editing applications
work with presentation software, providing users with an easy means to record and insert
video, music, and audio commentary in a presentation.

 Spreadsheet 
Spreadsheet software is an application that allows users to organize data in columns and rows 
and perform calculations on the data. These columns and rows collectively are called a 
worksheet.  
Most spreadsheet software has basic features to help users create, edit, and format 
worksheets. A spreadsheet file also is known as a workbook because it can contain thousands 
of related individual worksheets. Data is organized vertically in columns and horizontally in 
rows on each worksheet. 
Each worksheet usually can have thousands of columns and rows. One or more letters identify 
each column, and a number identifies each row. A cell is the intersection of a column and row. 
The spreadsheet software identifies cells by the column and row in which they are located.  
A function is a predefined formula that performs common calculations, such as adding the 
values in a group of cells or generating a value such as the time or date. For example, the 
function =SUM(B9:B16) instructs the spreadsheet application to add all of the numbers in the 
range of cells B9 through B16.  