TOPIC 1: PROGRAMS AND APPS (USING SOFTWARE AT SCHOOL, WORK AND HOME) 

1.1 PROGRAMS AND APPS 
A program, or software, consists of a series of related instructions, organized for a common 
purpose, that tells the computer what tasks to perform and how to perform them. An 
After reading this Section of the guide, the learner should be able to: 
application, or app, sometimes called application software, consists of programs designed to 
make users more productive and/or assist them with personal tasks. 
An operating system is a set of programs that coordinates all the activities among computer 
or mobile device hardware. Other programs, often called tools or utilities, enable you to 
perform maintenance-type tasks usually related to managing devices, media, and programs 
used by computers and mobile devices. The operating system and other tools are 
collectively known as system software because they consist of the programs that control or 
maintain the operations of the computer and its devices.

 SOFTWARE AVAILABILITY 
 
 Retail software 
It is mass-produced, copyrighted software that meets the needs of a wide variety of 
users, not just a single user or company. Some retail software, such as an operating 
system, is preinstalled on new computers and mobile devices. You also can purchase 
retail software from local stores and on the web. With online purchases, you may be 
able to download purchased programs immediately instead of waiting for the 
software to arrive by mail. 
 Custom software  
It performs functions specific to a business or industry. Sometimes a company cannot 
locate retail software that meets its unique requirements. In this case, the company 
may use software developers to create tailor-made custom software. Custom 
software usually costs more than retail software.
 A web app
It is an application stored on a web server that you access through a browser. Users 
typically interact with web apps directly by visiting a website, but some web apps also can 
be accessed locally offline. Many websites provide free access to their apps. Some charge 
a one- time fee, while others charge recurring monthly or annual subscription fees. You 
may be able to use part of a web app free and pay for access to a more comprehensive 
program or pay a fee when a certain action occurs.
 A mobile app  
It is an application you download from a mobile device’s app store, sometimes called a 
marketplace, or other location on the Internet to a smartphone or other mobile device. 
Some mobile apps are preinstalled on a new mobile computer or device. Many mobile 
apps are free; others have a minimal cost — often less than a few dollars. 
 
 
