4.4 COMMUNICATION DEVICES 
A communications device is any type of hardware capable of transmitting data, instructions, 
and information between a sending device and a receiving device. At the sending end, a 
communications device sends the data, instructions, or information from the sending device 
to transmission media. At the receiving end, a communications device receives the signals 
from the transmission media. 

The following are different types of communication devices: 
 Digital Modems; Cable, DSL and ISDN 
A broadband modem, also called a digital modem, is a communications device that sends 
and receives data and information to and from a digital line.  
Three types of broadband modems are  
 cable modems,  
 DSL modems, and 
  ISDN modems.  

These modems typically include built-in Wi-Fi connectivity. A cable modem is a broadband 
modem that sends and receives digital data over the CATV network. To access the Internet 
using the CATV service, as shown in Figure 10-12, the CATV provider installs a splitter inside 
your house. From the splitter, one part of the cable runs to your televisions and the other part 
connects to the cable modem. A DSL modem is a broadband modem that sends digital data 
and information from a computer to a DSL line and receives digital data and information from 
a DSL line. ISDN modem is a broadband modem that sends digital data and information from 
a computer to an ISDN line and receives digital data and information from an ISDN line.  

 Wireless Modems 
Some mobile users have a wireless modem that uses a mobile service provider’s network to 
connect to the Internet wirelessly from a computer or mobile device. Some smartphones also 
can function as a wireless modem, called a mobile hot spot, when tethered to a personal 
computer or mobile device.  
 Wireless Access Points 
A wireless access point (WAP) is a central communications device that allows computers and devices 
to transfer data wirelessly among themselves or to a wired network using wire- less technologies, such 
as Wi-Fi. Wireless access points have high-quality internal or external antennas for optimal signals. 

 Routers 
A router is a communications device Internet that connects multiple computers or other 
routers together and transmits data to its correct destination on a network. A router can be 
used on a network of any size. If the network has a separate router, it connects to the router 
via a cable. Similarly, if the network has a separate wireless access point, it connects to the 
router via a cable. 
 
Many users, however, opt for routers that provide additional functionality: 
 A wireless router is a device that performs the functions of a router and also a 
wireless access point. 
 A broadband router is a device that performs the functions of a router and also a 
broadband modem.  
 A broadband wireless router is a device that performs the functions of a router, a 
wireless access point, and a cable or DSL modem. 
 A mobile broadband wireless router is a device that performs the functions of a 
router, a wireless files access point, and a wireless modem. Consumers use mobile 
broadband wireless routers to create a mobile hot spot. 
