 Object-Oriented Database 
An object-oriented database (OODB) stores data in objects. An object is an item that contains 
data, as well as the actions that read or process the data. Examples of applications 
appropriate for an object-oriented database include media databases that store images, 
audio clips, and/or video clips; groupware databases that store documents, such as schedules, 
calendars, manuals, memos, and reports; and CAD (computer-aided design) databases that 
store data about engineering, architectural, and scientific designs. 
 Multidimensional and other database types 
 
A multidimensional database stores data in dimensions. Whereas a relational database is a 
two-dimensional table, a multidimensional database can store more than two dimensions of 
data. These multiple dimensions allow users to access and analyze any view of the database 
data. One application that uses multi-dimensional databases is a data warehouse. A data 
warehouse is a huge database that stores and manages the data required to analyze historical 
and current transactions. The database in a data warehouse often is distributed. The data in 
a distributed database exists in many separate locations throughout a network or the 
Internet. Although the data is accessible through a single server, the physical location of the 
server on which it is stored is transparent and often unknown, to the user. 

 Big Data 
Recent technology trends have resulted in activities that generate large quantities of data. 
These trends include the following: 
• Growth of online commerce, social, and government applications  
• Increased use of mobile devices  
• Emergence of the Internet of Things  
• Development of cloud computing 
• Availability of Internet connectivity through wired and wireless networks 

Big Data refers to large-scale data sets that require advanced technologies beyond the 
capabilities of typical database soft- ware to gather, store, process, retrieve, or analyze. 
Online business transactions, posts on social networks, government agencies, media and text 
messages from tablets and smartphones, and automated sensors produce data that is stored 
in databases located stored on servers distributed across the Internet. 
Read Mini Feature 11-2 to learn more about characteristics and sources of Big Data, and 
technologies that facilitate working with large-scale distributed databases. 

 