2.2.1 Safeguards against Internet and Networks Attacks 

Methods that protect computers, mobile devices and networks from attacks include the following: 
 Use antivirus software 
 Be suspicious of unsolicited email attachments 
 Scan removable media for malware before using it 
 Implement firewall solutions 
 Back up regularly 
 Firewalls 

A firewall is a hardware and/ or software that protects a network’s resources from intrusion by 
users on another network such as the Internet. 
A firewall is a program or hardware device that filters the data packets coming through the internet 
connection into your personal computer or into a company's network. It is set up to allow mainly one 
way access, i.e. you can go out onto the internet and access pages, but it checks everything coming 
back against a set of rules. If the data coming back is from an unauthorised source, then it is blocked. 
You may have heard people saying, 'I can't get on that site at school because it's been blocked'; that 
is the firewall in action. 
Firewalls can also protect your system from hackers who might try to 'break-in' and access or steal 
data. 

2.3 UNAUTHORISE ACCESS AND USE 
Unauthorised access is the use of a computer or network without permission.  
Organizations take several measures to help prevent unauthorized access and use 

 Acceptable use policy 
 Disable file and printer sharing 
 Access Controls 
 
Access controls define who can access a computer, device, or network; when they can access it; and 
what actions they can take while accessing it. The computer, device, or network should maintain an 
audit trail that records in a file both successful and unsuccessful access attempts. An unsuccessful 
access attempt could result from a user mistyping his or her password or it could result from a 
perpetrator trying thousands of passwords.

 Possessed Objects 
A possessed object is any item that you must possess, or carry with you, in order to gain access to a 
computer or computer facility. A PIN (personal identification number), sometimes called a passcode, 
is a numeric password, either assigned by a company or selected by a user. PINs provide an 
additional level of security. An ATM card typically requires a 4 digit PIN. If someone steals these 
cards, the thief must enter the user’s PIN to access the account. 

 Biometric Devices 
A biometric device authenticates a person’s identity by translating a personal characteristic into a 
digital code that is compared with a digital code in a computer or mobile device verifying a physical 
or behavioral characteristic. If the digital code of the computer does not match the personal 
characteristic code, the computer denies access to the individual. 

