3.1.3 Storage Access Times 

The speed of storage devices and memory is defined by access time. Access time measures  
(1) The amount of time it takes a storage device to locate an item on a storage medium or  
(2) The time required to deliver an item from memory to the processor.  
The access time of storage devices is slow, compared with the access time of memory. Memory (chips) 
accesses items in billionths of a second (nanoseconds). Storage devices, by contrast, access items in 
thousandths of a second (milliseconds) or millionths of a second (microseconds). Transfer rate is the 
speed with which data, instructions, and information transfer to and from a device. Transfer rates for 
storage are stated in KBps (kilobytes per second), MBps (megabytes per second), and GBps (gigabytes 
per second). 

3.2 HARD DISKS 
 
A hard disk, also called a hard disk drive (HDD), is a storage device that contains one or more inflexible, 
circular platters that use magnetic particles to store data, instructions, and information. The term, 
hard drive, refers collectively to hard disks and SSDs. Hard drives can be internal or external. That is, 
they can reside inside a computer or mobile device, or they can be an external device that connects 
to a computer or some mobile devices. A hard disk, also called a hard disk drive (HDD), is a storage 
device that contains one or more inflexible, circular platters that use magnetic particles to store data, 
instructions, and information. Desktop and laptops often contain at least one hard disk. The entire 
hard disk is enclosed in an airtight, sealed case to protect it from contamination. 
 
Reading is the process of transferring 
items from a storage medium into 
memory
Writing is the process of transferring 
items from memory to a storage 
medium

Hard disks are read/write storage media. Before any data can be read from or written on a hard disk, 
however, the disk must be formatted. Formatting is the process of dividing the disk into tracks and 
sectors, so that the operating system can store and locate data and information on the disk. A track is 
an arrow recording band that forms a full circle on the surface of the disk. The disk’s storage locations 
consist of wedge-shaped sections, which break the tracks into small arcs called sectors. On a hard disk, 
a sector typically stores up to 512 bytes of data.  