2.7 WIRELESS SECURITY 
Although wireless access provides many conveniences to users, it also poses additional 
security risks. Some perpetrators connect to other’s wireless networks to gain free Internet 
access; others may try to access an organization’s confidential data. Others connect to a 
network through an unsecured wireless access point (WAP) or combination router/WAP 
 
2.8 ETHICS AND SOCIETY 
As with any powerful technology, computers and mobile devices can be used for both good and bad 
intentions. The standards that determine whether an action is good or bad are known as ethics. 
Computer ethics also known as technology ethics are moral guidelines that govern the use of 
computers, mobile devices and information systems. Frequently discussed areas of computer ethics 
are unauthorized use of computers, mobile devices, and networks; software theft (piracy); 
Grandparent
Parent
Child
information accuracy; intellectual property rights; codes of conducts, green computing; and 
information privacy. 
 Information Accuracy 
Information accuracy is a concern today because many users access information maintained by other 
people or companies, such as on the Internet. Sometimes it is assumed that because the information 
is on the Web therefor it is correct of which, that is not true. 
 Intellectual Property Rights 
Intellectual property (IP) refers to unique and original works, such as ideas, inventions, art, writings, 
processes, company and product names, and logos. Intellectual property rights are the rights to which 
creators are entitled for their work. A copyright gives authors, artists, and other creators of original 
work exclusive rights to duplicate, publish, and sell their materials. A copyright protects any tangible 
form of expression. A common infringement of copyright is piracy, where people illegally copy 
software, movies, and music. 
 Code of Conduct 
A code of conduct is a written guideline that helps determine whether a specification is 
ethical/unethical or allowed/not allowed. An IT code of conduct focuses on accept- able use of 
technology. Employers and schools often specify standards for the ethical use of technology in an IT 
code of con- duct and then distribute these standards to employees and students. 
 Green Computing 
People use, and often waste, resources such as electricity and paper while using technology. Green 
computing involves reducing the electricity and environmental waste while using computers, mobile 
devices, and related technologies. The United States Department of Energy (DOE) and the United 
States Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) developed the ENERGY STAR program to help reduce 
the amount of electricity used by computers and related devices. This program encourages 
manufacturers to create energy-efficient devices. For example, many devices switch to sleep or power 
save mode after a specified number of inactive minutes or hours. Personal computers, displays, 
printers, and other devices should comply with guidelines of the ENERGY STAR program.