 Phishing 
Phishing is a scam in which a perpetrator sends an official looking email message that attempts to 
obtain your personal and /or financial information. These messages look legitimate and request that 
you update credit card numbers, Social Security numbers, bank account numbers, passwords, or 
other private information. Clickjacking is yet another scam. Clickjacking, an object that can be clicked 
on a website, such as a button, Image, or link, contains a malicious program. When a user clicks the 
disguised object, a variety of nefarious events may occur. 
 Spyware and Adware 
Spyware is a program placed on a computer or mobile device without the user’s knowledge that 
secretly collects information about the user and then communicates the information it collects to 
some outside source while the user is online. Some vendors or employers use spyware to collect 
information about program usage or employees. Internet advertising firms often collect information 
about users’ web browsing habits. Adware is a program that displays an online advertisement in a 
banner or pop-up window on webpages, email messages, or other Internet services. Adware on 
mobile phones is known as madware, for mobile adware. 
 Social Engineering 
Social engineering is defined as gaining unauthorized access to or obtaining confidential information 
by taking advantage of the trusting human nature of some victims and the naivety of others. Some 
social engineers trick their victims into revealing confidential information such as user names and 
passwords on the phone, in the phone, in person, or on the Internet. 
 Privacy Laws 
The concern about privacy has led to the enactment of federal and state laws regarding the storage 
and disclosure of personal data. 
 Employee Monitoring 
Employee monitoring involves the use of computers, mobile devices, or cameras to observe, record, 
and review an employee’s use of a technology, including communications such as email messages, 
keyboard activity (used to measure productivity), and websites visited. Many programs exist that 
easily allow employers to monitor employees. Further, it is legal for employers to use these programs 
 Content Filtering 
Content filtering is the process of restricting access to certain material. Many businesses use 
content filtering to limit employee’s web access. Web filtering software is a program that restricts 
access to specified website. 