 Networks Card 
A network card, sometimes called a network interface card (NIC pronounced nick), is a 
communications device that enables a computer or device that does not have built-in 
networking capability to access a network. The network card coordinates the transmission 
and receipt of data, instructions, and information to and from the computer or device 
containing the network card. 

Network cards are available in a variety of styles. A network card for a desktop is an adapter 
card that has a port to which a cable connects. A network card for mobile computers and 
devices is in the form of a USB adapter or other device.  
 Hubs and Switches 
Interconnecting these many types of networks requires various types of communications 
devices. A hub or switch is a device that provides a central point for cables in a network. Larger 
networks typically use a hub, while smaller networks use a switch. Some hubs and/or switches 
include routers. That is, the hub or switch receives data from many directions and then 
forwards it to one or more destinations. 

4.5 HOME NETWORKS 
Many home users connect multiple computers and devices together in a home network. 
Vendors typically offer home networking packages that include all the necessary hardware 
and software to network your home using wired or wireless techniques. 

4.6 TRANSMISSION MEDIA 
Transmission media consist of materials or substances capable of carrying one or more 
communications signals. When you send data from a computer or mobile device, the signal 
that carries the data may travel over various transmission media. Broadband media transmit 
multiple signals simultaneously. The amount of data, instructions, and information that can 
travel over transmission media sometimes is called the bandwidth. The higher the bandwidth, 
the more data transmitted. For transmission of text only, a lower bandwidth is acceptable. 
Latency, with respect to communications, is the time it takes a signal to travel from one 
location to another on a network. 

4.7 PHYSICAL TRANSMISSION MEDIA 
Physical transmission media use wire, cable, and other tangible materials to send 
communications signals. These wires and cables typically are used underground or within or 
between buildings. Ethernet and token ring LANs often use physical transmission media. 
 Twisted  
Physical transmission media use wire, cable, and other tangible materials to send 
communications signals. These wires and cables typically are used underground or within or 
between buildings. Ethernet and token ring LANs often use physical transmission media. 
