 Characteristics of a Hard Disk 
The storage capacity of hard disks varies and is determined by the number of platters the hard disk 
contains, the composition of the magnetic coating on the platters etc. 
 A platter is made of aluminium, glass or ceramic and has a thin coating of alloy material that 
allows items to be recorded  magnetically on its surface 
 Longitudinal recording aligns the magnetic particles horizontally around the surface of the 
disk. 
 Perpendicular recording, by contrast, hard disks align the magnetic particles vertically or 
perpendicular to the disk’s surface , making much greater storage capacities possible 
 Density is the number of bits in an area on a storage medium. A higher density means more 
storage capacity. 

 SSD 
An SSD (solid-state drive) is a flash memory storage device that contains its own processor to 
manage its storage. Flash memory chips are a type of solid-state media, which means they consist 
entirely of electronic components, such as integrated circuits, and contain no moving parts.  
A head crash occurs when a read/write head touches the surface of a platter. Always keep a 
backup of your hard disk. An SSD (solid state drive) is a flash memory storage device that contains 
its own processor to manage its storage. An SSD (solid state drive) has several advantages over 
traditional (magnetic) hard disks: 
SSDs have several advantages over traditional (magnetic) hard disks, including the following: 
 Faster access times (can be more than 100 times faster)  
 Faster transfer rates  
 Quieter operation  
 More durable 
 Lighter weight  
 Less power consumption (leads to longer battery life)  
 Less heat generation  
 Longer life (more than 10 times longer)  
 Defragmentation is not required 
SSDs may be in the form of flash memory chips installed directly on a motherboard or an adapter card. 
They also may be housed in a separate casing that attaches to the motherboard. 

 External Hard Disks 
An external hard drive is a separate freestanding storage device that connects with a cable to 
a USB port or other port on a computer or mobile device. Both hard disks and SSDs are 
available as external hard drives. Smaller external hard drives are portable and enable mobile 
users to transport photos and other files from one computer to another easily. External hard 
drives units can include multiple hard drives that you can use for different purposes, if 
desired. 
 RAID 
A group of two or more integrated hard drives is called a RAID (redundant array of 
independent disks). RAID is an ideal storage solution in situations where uninterrupted access 
to the data is critical. 