Standards are sets of rules and procedures an organization expects employees to accept 
and follow. Standards help people working on the same project produce consistent 
results. 

A systems analyst is responsible for designing and developing an information system. The 
systems analyst is the users’ primary contact person. Depending on the size of the 
organization, the tasks performed by the systems analyst may vary. Smaller organizations may 
have one systems analyst or even one person who assumes the roles of both systems analyst 
and software developer. Larger organizations often have multiple systems analysts who 
discuss various aspects of the development project with users, management, other analysts, 
database analysts, database administrators, network administrators, web developers, 
software developers, vendors, and the steering committee. 
 
• Project Management 
Project management is the process of planning, scheduling, and then controlling the 
activities during system development. The goal of project management is to deliver an 
acceptable system to the user in an agreed-upon time frame, while maintaining costs. 
In smaller organizations or projects, one person manages the entire project. For larger 
projects, the project management activities often are separated between a project manager 
and a project leader. In this situation, the project leader manages and controls the budget 
and schedule of the project, and the project manager controls the activities during system 
development. Project leaders and/or project managers are part of the project team. If the 
systems analyst is not the project manager, he or she works closely with the project manager. 
To plan and schedule a project effectively, the project leader identifies the following 
elements: 

 Goals, objectives, and expectations of the project, collectively called the scope  
 Required activities  
 Time estimates for each activity  
 Cost estimates for each activity 
 Order of activities  
 Activities that can take place at the same time 
Project leaders can use project management software to assist them in planning, 
scheduling, and controlling development projects. 
 Gantt and PERt Charts 