 Consistency Check 
A consistency check tests the data in two or more associated fields to ensure that the 
relationship is logical and their data is in the correct format. For example, the value in a Date 
Admitted field cannot occur earlier in time than a value in a Birth Date field. 
 Completeness Check  
A completeness check verifies that a required field contains data. For example, some fields 
cannot be left blank; others require a minimum number of characters. One completeness 
check can ensure that data exists in a Last Name field. Another can ensure that a day, month, 
and year are included in a Birth Date field. 
 Check digit 
A check digit is a number(s) or character(s) that is appended to or inserted in a primary key 
value. A check digit often confirms the accuracy of a primary key value. Bank account, credit 
card, and other identification numbers often include one or more check digits. 
 Other Checks  
DBMSs that include the hyperlink and attachment data types can perform validity checks on data 
entered in those fields. Hyperlink entries (web addresses and email addresses) can be tested to ensure 
that the address follows the correct format. Similarly, an attachment entry can be validated by 
confirming that the file exists.

.1 FILE PROCESSING VERSUS DATABASES 
 
In the past, many organizations exclusively used file processing systems to store and manage 
data. In a typical, file processing system, each department or area within an organization has 
its own set of files. The records in one file may not relate to the records in any other file.  
Many of these systems have two major weaknesses: redundant data and isolated data. 

 Redundant data:  
Because each department or area in an organization has its own files in a file processing 
system, the same fields are stored in multiple files. If a file processing system is used at a 
school, for example, the Student file and the Student Schedule file both might store the same 
students’ names and addresses. 
Duplicating data in this manner can increase the chance of errors. If a student changes his or 
her address, for example, the school must update the address in each file in which it appears. 
If the Address field is not changed in all the files where it is stored or is changed incorrectly in 
one location, then discrepancies among the files exist. This duplication also wastes resources, 
such as storage space and time. 