To satisfy requirements, configuration management generally includes functions to do the following: 
 Set the parameters that control the routine operation of the system 
 Associate names with managed objects and sets of managed objects 
 Initialize and close down managed objects 
 Collect information on demand about the current condition of the system 
 Obtain announcements of significant changes in the condition of the system 
 Change the configuration of the system

Performance Management 
Modern data communications networks are composed of many and varied components, which must 
intercommunicate and share data and resources. In some cases, it is critical to the effectiveness of an 
application that the communication over the network be within certain performance limits. 
Performance management of a computer network comprises two broad functional categories: 
monitoring and controlling. Monitoring is the function that tracks activities on the network. The 
controlling function enables performance management to make adjustments to improve network 
performance. Some of the performance issues of concern to a network manager are as follows: 

 What is the level of capacity utilization? 
 Is there excessive traffic? 
 Has throughput been reduced to unacceptable levels? 
 Are there bottlenecks? 
 Is response time increasing?

To deal with these concerns, a network manager must focus on some initial set of resources to be 
monitored to assess performance levels. This includes associating appropriate metrics and values with 
relevant network resources as indicators of different levels of performance. For example, what count 
of retransmissions on a transport connection is considered to be a performance problem requiring 
attention? Performance management, therefore, must monitor many resources to provide 
information in determining network operating level. By collecting this information, analyzing it, and 
then using the resultant analysis as feedback to the prescribed set of values, a network manager 
becomes more and more adept at recognizing situations that indicate present or impending 
performance degradation. 

Before using a network for a particular application, a user may want to know such things as the 
average and worst-case response times and the reliability of network services. Thus, performance 
must be known in sufficient detail to respond to specific user queries. End users expect network 
services to be managed in such a way as to afford their applications consistently good response time. 
Network managers need performance statistics to help them plan, manage, and maintain large 
networks. Performance statistics are used to recognize potential bottlenecks before they cause 
problems to end users. They also enable network managers to take appropriate corrective action. This 
action either takes the form of changing routing tables to balance or redistribute traffic load during 
times of peak use or when a bottleneck is identified by a rapidly growing load in one area. Over the 
long term, capacity planning based on such performance information indicates the proper decisions 
to make, for example, with regard to expansion of lines in that area.