5. Conduct enterprise reconnaissance. After establishing persistent access to the target 
environment, the APT typically attempts to find the servers or storage facilities holding the 
targeted information. In most cases, the reconnaissance uses the tools available on the 
compromised computers. In some cases, the APT uploads scanning tools to search for specific 
types of systems (for example, identity and access management, authentication, virtual 
private networks [VPNs], database or email servers). 
 
6. Move laterally to new systems. Part of enterprise reconnaissance necessarily includes moving 
laterally to new systems to explore their contents and understand the new parts of the 
enterprise accessed from the new systems. The APT can directly install command-and-control 
software on new systems to expand persistent access to the environment. 
 
7. Escalate privileges. As the attackers conduct reconnaissance and move around the network 
using the compromised credentials of their first few targets, they inevitably seek to escalate 
from local user to local administrator to higher levels of privilege in the environment so that 
they are not constrained to any specific part of the environment. In enterprises where access 
to information is tightly controlled, compromising all the credentials in the environment 
allows the attackers to masquerade as anyone in the environment and access any resource 
they desire. 
 
8. Gather and encrypt data of interest. Having found the data of interest to the attackers, the 
APT generally gathers the data into an archive and then compresses and encrypts the archive. 
This enables the APT to hide the contents of organizational information 

 Perform surveillance of targeted organizations over time to examine and assess organizations 
and ascertain points of vulnerability 
 Perform malware-directed internal reconnaissance 

Weaponization 
At this stage, an attacker prepares an attack payload and crafts a tool to deliver the attack, using the 
gathered information. This step happens at the attacker side, without contact with the victim.