Plan Vulnerability Management 

Effective management of technical vulnerabilities begins with 
planning. Key aspects of the planning process include the following: 

 Risk and process integration: Technical vulnerability review is an operational aspect of an overall information 
security risk management strategy. A vulnerability analysis must consider the relative risk impacts, including 
those related to the potential for operational disruption. 

These risks must also have a clear reporting path that allows for appropriate management 
awareness of risk factors and exposure. Vulnerability management should also provide input 
into change management and incident management processes. 

 Integration with asset inventory: As discussed in Chapter, “Information Risk Assessment,” 
asset identification is an integral part of risk assessment. The resulting asset inventory allows 
for action to be taken once a technical vulnerability is reviewed and a mitigation strategy 
agreed on. By integrating the asset inventory with the vulnerability management system, an 
enterprise can prioritize high-risk systems where the impact of technical vulnerabilities can be 
greatest. 
 Establishment of clear authority to review vulnerabilities: Because probing a network for 
vulnerabilities can disrupt systems and expose private data, an enterprise needs to have in 
place a policy and buy-in from top management before performing vulnerability assessments. 
The enterprise’s acceptable use policy must have users and system managers consent to 
vulnerability scanning as a condition of connecting to the network. Awareness training should 
clarify that the main purpose of seeking vulnerabilities is to defend against attacks. There is 
also a need for policies and ethical guidelines for those who have access to data from 
vulnerability scans. These individuals need to understand the appropriate action when illegal 
materials are found on their systems during a vulnerability scan. 
 System and application life cycle integration: The review of vulnerabilities must be integrated 
in system release and software development planning to ensure that potential weaknesses 
are identified early to both lower risks and manage costs of finding these issues prior to 
identified release dates. 