 Data aggregation: The aggregator serves as a consolidating resource before data is sent to be 
correlated or retained. 
 Data normalization: Normalization is the process of resolving different representations of the 
same types of data into a similar format in a common database. 
 Correlation: Event correlation is the function of linking multiple security events or alerts, 
typically within a given time window and across multiple systems, to identify anomalous 
activity that is not evident from any singular event. 
 Alerting: When data that trigger certain responses (such as alerts or potential security 
problems) are gathered or identified, SIEM tools activate certain protocols to alert users, such 
as notifications sent to the dashboard, an automated email, or text message. 
 Reporting/compliance: Protocols in a SIEM are established to automatically collect data 
necessary for compliance with company, organizational, and government policies. Both 
custom reporting and report templates (generally for common regulations such as the 
Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard [PCI DSS] and the U.S. Sarbanes-Oxley Act) are 
typically part of a SIEM solution. 
 Forensics: The ability to search log and alert data for indicators of malicious or otherwise 
anomalous activities is the forensic function of the SIEM. Forensics, which is supported by the 
event correlation and normalization processes, requires highly customizable and detailed 
query capabilities and drill-down access to raw log files and archival data. Working in concert, 
these technologies greatly enhance the investigative capabilities of security analysts, just as 
data collection, aggregation, and correlation technologies enhance their ability to detect and 
respond to real-time events. 
 Retention: Data need to be stored for long periods so that decisions can be made based on 
more complete data sets. 
 Dashboards: Dashboards are used to analyze and visualize data in an attempt to recognize 
patterns or target activity or data that do not fit into a normal pattern. 
 