 Privacy-enhanced system design and development: This involves designing 
information systems to support privacy by automating privacy controls. 
 Accounting of disclosures: This involves keeping an accurate accounting of disclosures 
and making it available to the person affected. 
 Data quality and integrity: The objective of this family is to ensure that any PII collected and 
maintained by organizations is accurate, relevant, timely, and complete for the purpose for 
which it is to be used. This control includes procedures for confirming to the greatest extent 
possible the quality of the PII collected or created and documenting processes to ensure 
integrity. 
 Data minimization and retention: This family includes the following controls: 
 Minimization of PII: This involves establishing procedures to identify the minimum 
relevant and necessary PII. 
 Data retention and disposal: This involves retaining PII only as long as necessary and 
providing secure methods of deletion and destruction. 
 Minimization of PII used in testing, training, and research: This involves developing 
and implementing policies and procedures to minimize use of PII in testing, training, 
and research. 
 Individual participation and redress: This family addresses the need to make individuals active 
participants in the decision-making process regarding the collection and use of their PII. It 
includes the following: 
 Consent: This involves providing means, where feasible and appropriate, for 
individuals to express explicit consent to the use of their PII and to be aware of and 
consent to all additional uses of their PII beyond the initial consent. 
 Individual access: This involves providing individuals the ability to have access to their 
PII. 
 Redress: This involves providing a process by which an individual can have inaccurate 
PII corrected. 
 Complaint management: This involves implementing a process for receiving and 
responding to complaints, concerns, or questions from individuals about the 
organizational privacy practices.