Configuration Management
 
Modern data communication networks are composed of individual components and logical 
subsystems (for example, the device driver in an operating system) that are configured to perform 
many different applications. The same device, for example, can be configured to act either as a router 
or as an end system node or both. Once it is decided how a device is to be used, the configuration 
manager chooses the appropriate software and set of attributes and values (for example, a transport 
layer retransmission timer) for that device.
 
Configuration management is concerned with initializing a network and gracefully shutting down part 
or all of the network. It is also concerned with maintaining, adding, and updating the relationships 
among components and the status of components during network operation. 
Startup and shutdown operations on a network are part of configuration management. It is often 
desirable for these operations on certain components to be performed unattended (for example, 
starting up or shutting down a network interface unit). A network manager needs to be able to identify 
initially the components that comprise the network and to define the desired connectivity of those 
components. Those who regularly configure a network with the same or a similar set of resource 
attributes need ways to define and modify default attributes and to load those predefined sets of 
attributes into the specified network components. A network manager needs to be able to change the 
connectivity of network components when users’ needs change. Reconfiguration of a network is often 
desired in response to performance evaluation or in support of network upgrade, fault recovery, or 
security checks. 

Users often need to, or want to, be informed of the status of network resources and components. 
Therefore, when changes in configuration occur, the network or system manager should notify users 
of these changes. The network or system manager should also generate configuration reports either 
on some routine periodic basis or in response to a request for such a report. Before reconfiguration, 
users often want to inquire about the upcoming status of resources and their attributes. 
Network managers usually want only authorized users (operators) to manage and control network 
operation (for example, software distribution and updating). 