Information Risk Reporting 
Risk reporting is a process that produces information systems reports that address threats, 
capabilities, vulnerabilities, and inherent risk changes. Risk reporting describes any information 
security events that the institution faces and the effectiveness of management’s response to and 
resilience in the face of those events. An organization needs to have a method of disseminating those 
reports to appropriate members of management. The contents of the reports should prompt action, 
if necessary, in a timely manner to maintain appropriate levels of risk. 
One objective of information risk reporting is to provide executive management with an accurate, 
comprehensive, and coherent view of information risk across the organization. The second objective 
is to obtain approval from executive management for risk treatment options. 
The Information Systems Audit and Control Association (ISACA) has developed useful guidance on 
information risk reporting, based on COBIT 5 [ISAC09]. The guidance makes use of two key concepts 
in COBIT 5: 
 Process: A collection of practices influenced by the enterprise’s policies and procedures that 
takes inputs from a number of sources (including other processes), manipulates the inputs, 
and produces outputs (for example, products, services). Processes have clear business reasons 
for existing, accountable owners, clear roles and responsibilities around the execution of the 
process, and the means to measure performance. 
 Activity: The main action taken to operate the process, which provides guidance to achieve 
management practices for successful governance and management of enterprise IT. Activities: 
 Describe a set of necessary and sufficient action-oriented implementation steps to 
achieve a governance practice or management practice 
 Consider the inputs and outputs of the process 
 Are based on generally accepted standards and good practices 
 Support establishment of clear roles and responsibilities 
 Are nonprescriptive and need to be adapted and developed into specific procedures 
appropriate for the enterprise 

Using these concepts, ISACA outlines the goals and metrics for processes and activities that contribute 
to the risk reporting function, as well as the risk reporting function itself (see Table 18.5). 