Asset Register 

In order to effectively protect assets, an organization needs to provide a systematic method of 
documenting assets and their security implications. This is done in an asset register that documents 
important security-related information for each asset. Examples of items that may be included for 
each asset are as follows:
 
 Asset name/description: This information uniquely identifies an asset. 
 Asset type: This denotes the type of asset it is, such as physical/infrastructure assets, software, 
information, service, or human resource. 
 Asset class: For purposes of risk assessment, an organization should group assets into classes 
so risks are measured against classes of assets rather than against individual assets. Asset class 
examples include desktops/workstations, servers, Payment Card Industry (PCI) devices, 
restricted/sensitive file shares, and restricted printers. 
 Information assets: An information asset defines specifically what kind of information is 
processed, transmitted, or stored by the asset (for example, customer personally identifiable 
information [PII], PCI data). This item does not apply to all assets. 
 Asset owner: An organization should define the department/company function that owns an 
asset and is responsible for risk associated with the asset. This is also sometimes referred to 
as the risk owner or business owner. 
 Asset custodian: This is the individual responsible for maintaining, monitoring, and managing 
the asset. This is typically a network or systems administrator. 
 Location: This is the physical location of the asset. 
 Function/business process: This is the business process or function the asset supports (for 
example, information processing facility). 
 Data type/classification: The company’s established information classification policy should 
be used to classify the information transmitted, processed, or stored by the asset. This helps 
drive the risk assessment later. 
 Asset value classification: This could be a monetary value but more typically is a ranking, such 
as low, medium, or high. 
 Disaster recovery priority: In the event of a security breach that affects multiple assets, this is 
the relative priority for devoting resources to recovery. This could be a numeric scale (for 
example, 1 to 10) or a low/medium/high scale. 
 Exposure level: This is the degree to which an asset is exposed to threats. This depends, at 
least, on how the asset is shared and also may 
depend on other factors. 

Table 3.4, from the ISACA document “Security Risk 
Management” [RITC13], is a simplified example of the 
type of elements that should go into an asset register. 