Security Audit and Alarms Model 

X.816 has developed a model that shows the elements of the security auditing function and their 
relationships to security alarms (see Figure 18.1). 

The key elements of this model are as follows: 

 Event discriminator: This logic embedded in the software of the system monitors system 
activity and detects security-related events that it was configured to detect. 
 Audit recorder: For each detected event, the event discriminator transmits the information 
to an audit recorder. The model depicts this transmission in the form of a message. The 
audit could also be done by recording the event in a shared memory area. 
 Alarm processor: Some of the events detected by the event discriminator are defined to be 
alarm events. For such events, an alarm is issued to an alarm processor. The alarm processor 
takes some action based on the alarm. This action is itself an auditable event and so is 
transmitted to the audit recorder. 
 Security audit trail: The audit recorder creates a formatted record of each event and stores it 
in the security audit trail. 
 Audit analyzer: The security audit trail is available to the audit analyzer, which, based on a 
pattern of activity, may define a new auditable event that is sent to the audit recorder and 
may generate an alarm. 
 Audit archiver: This software module periodically extracts records from the audit trail to 
create a permanent archive of auditable events. 
 Archives: The audit archives are a permanent store of security-related events on this system. 
 Audit provider: The audit provider is an application and/or user interface to the audit trail. 
 Audit trail examiner: The audit trail examiner is an application or a user who examines the 
audit trail and the audit archives for historical trends, for computer forensic purposes, and for 
other analyses. 
 Security reports: The audit trail examiner prepares human-readable security reports. 
As shown, the auditing process begins with the detection of security-related events, which may in turn 
be determined to be security incidents that produce alarms. Refer to Figure 15.3 in Chapter, “Threat 
and Incident Management,” for details of this process. 