 Alternate audit capability: Deals with providing an alternate audit capability in the event of a 
failure in primary audit capability that implements organization-defined alternate audit 
functionality. 
 Cross-organizational audit: When organizations use systems and/or services of external 
organizations, the auditing capability necessitates a coordinated approach across 
organizations. This control provides for such a capability. Enhancements include: 
o Require that the identity of individuals be preserved in cross-organizational audit 
trails. 
o Provide cross-organizational audit information to organization-defined organizations 
based on organization-defined cross-organizational sharing agreements. 
This set of controls provides comprehensive guidance for planning and implementing an effective 
security auditing function. 

Table 18.1 lists the recommended set of minimum security controls, called a control baseline. Table 
18.1 provides additional guidance for an organization in selecting controls based on risk assessment.

7.3 Security Performance 
 
Security performance is the measurable result of security controls applied to information systems and 
supporting information security programs. The Information Security Forum’s (ISF’s) Standard of Good 
Practice for Information Security (SGP) defines the security performance function as comprising three 
areas: 

 Security monitoring and reporting: Consists of monitoring security performance regularly and 
reporting to specific audiences, such as executive management 
 Information risk reporting: Consists of producing reports relating to information risk and 
presenting reporting to executive management on a regular basis 
 Information security compliance monitoring: Consists of information security controls derived 
from regulatory and legal drivers and contracts, used to monitor security compliance 
An essential element of security performance assessment is the selection of security performance 
metrics. This section looks first at the topic of security performance metrics and then treats the three 
areas previously listed.