 Information about an individual that is linked or linkable to one of the above (for example, 
date of birth, place of birth, race, religion, weight, activities, geographic indicators, 
employment information, medical information, education information, financial information) 
The two concepts of privacy and information security are closely related. On the one hand, the scale 
and interconnectedness of personal information collected and stored in information systems has 
increased dramatically, motivated by law enforcement, national security, and economic incentives. 
Economic incentives have perhaps been the main driving force. In a global information economy, it is 
likely that the most economically valuable electronic asset is aggregation of information on individuals 

[JUDY14]. On the other hand, individuals have become increasingly aware of the extent to which 
government agencies, businesses, and even Internet users have access to their personal information 
and private details about their lives and activities. 
Although security and privacy are related, they are not equivalent. Cybersecurity, or information 
security, protects privacy. For example, an intruder seeking ostensibly private information (for 
example, personal emails or photographs, financial or medical records, phone calling records) may be 
stymied by good cybersecurity measures. In addition, security measures can protect the integrity of 
PII and support the availability of PII. However, At the Nexus of Cybersecurity and Public Policy 
[CLAR14] points out that certain measures taken to enhance cybersecurity can also violate privacy. 

For example, some proposals call for technical measures to block Internet traffic containing malware 
before it reaches its destination. But to identify malware-containing traffic, the content of all in-bound 
network traffic must be inspected. But inspection of traffic by any party other than its intended recipient is 
regarded by some as a violation of privacy because most traffic is in fact malware-free. Under many 
circumstances, inspection of traffic in this manner is also a 
violation of law.

