Security Governance and Security Management 

To better understand the role of security governance, it is useful to distinguish between information 
security governance (previously defined), information security management, and information security 
implementation/operations. ISO 27000 defines information security management as follows: 
The supervision and making of decisions necessary to achieve business objectives through the 
protection of the organization’s information assets. Management of information security is expressed 
through the formulation and use of information security policies, procedures and guidelines, which 
are then applied throughout the organization by all individuals associated with the organization. 
And information security implementation/operations can be defined in this fashion: 
The implementation, deployment and ongoing operation of security controls defined within a 
cybersecurity framework. 

Figure 2.1 suggests the hierarchical relationship between these three concepts. The security 
governance level communicates the mission priorities, available resources, and overall risk tolerance 
to the security management level. In essence, security governance is the process of developing a 
security program that adequately meets the strategic needs of the business. The security management 
level uses the information as inputs into the risk management process that realizes the security 
program. It then collaborates with the implementation/operations level to communicate security 
requirements and create a cybersecurity profile. The implementation/operations level integrates this 
profile into the system development life cycle and continuously monitors security performance. It 
executes or manages security-related processes related to current infrastructure on a day-to-day 
basis. The security management level uses monitoring information to assess the current profile and 
reports the outcomes of that assessment to the governance level to inform the organization’s overall 
risk management process.