VoIP Threats 

As VoIP becomes mainstream, a number of security issues must be understood and addressed. Key 
areas of concern are as follows: 

 VoIP traffic travels through the Internet. It is possible that a hacker could use a packet sniffer 
to listen to unencrypted VoIP traffic. The solution lies in setting up a VPN between the 
endpoints, but doing so also introduces additional complications. 
 Many older firewalls may not recognize VoIP packets. In addition, some intrusion detection 
systems may try to inspect voice packets, thereby introducing delay and jitter. Bypassing the 
traffic inspection rules in the firewall may create additional vulnerability. 
 Many older VoIP phones may require security patches for their software. Such patches are 
seldom applied as many administrators are not even aware that phone software needs to be 
patched. Some VoIP phones are set up to apply patches directly without even asking for 
authentication. Such phones can be very vulnerable to hackers. 
 Phones also inherit the security flaws of the operating systems they use. 
 Systems used out of the box may have default passwords and open ports that need to be 
managed and secured. In many cases, this is ignored. 
 DoS attacks can be launched against a VoIP phone system, just as they can be launched against 
other computer applications. 
The following are some specific threats to the use of VoIP: 
 Spam over Internet telephone (SPIT): Unsolicited bulk messages may be broadcast over VoIP 
to phones connected to the Internet. Although marketers already use voicemail for 
commercial messages, IP telephony makes a more effective channel because the sender can 
send messages in bulk instead of dialing each number separately. 
 Eavesdropping: Interception of control packets enables an adversary to listen in on an 
unsecured VoIP call. 
 Theft of service: This type of attack involves capturing access codes, allowing the adversary to 
get into the VoIP provider network and then use the facility. 
 Man-in-the middle attack: This type of attack involves an adversary inserting as a relay point 
between two ends of a VoIP call. In addition to eavesdropping, the adversary could divert a 
call to a third party or generate simulated voice content to create misleading impressions or 
cause operational errors. 