Security Planning 

NIST SP 800-18, Guide for Developing Security Plans for Federal Information Systems, indicates that 
the purpose of a system security plan is to provide an overview of the security requirements of the 
system and describe the controls in place or planned for meeting those requirements. The system 
security plan also delineates responsibilities and expected behavior of all individuals who access the 
system. The system security plan is basically documentation of the structured process of planning 
adequate, cost-effective security protection for a system. 

security plan 
A formal document that provides an overview of the security requirements for an information system 
and describes the security controls in place or planned for meeting those requirements. 
SP 800-18 recommends that each information system in an organization have a separate plan 
document with the following elements: 

 Information system name/identifier: A name or identifier uniquely assigned to each system. 
Assignment of a unique identifier supports the organization’s ability to easily collect 
information and security metrics specific to the system as well as facilitate complete 
traceability to all requirements related to system implementation and performance. The 
identifier should remain the same throughout the life of the system and retained in audit logs 
related to system use. 
 Information system owner: The person responsible for managing this asset. 
 Authorizing individual: The senior management official or executive with the authority to 
formally assume responsibility for operating an information system at an acceptable level of 
risk to agency operations, agency assets, or individuals. 
 Assignment of security responsibility: The individual responsible for the security of the 
information system. 
 Security categorization: Using the FIPS 199, Standards for Security Categorization of Federal 
Information and Information Systems, categories, the acceptable level of risk (low, moderate, 
or high) for confidentiality, integrity, and availability (for each distinct element of the system, 
if necessary). 
 Information system operational status: Status, such as operational, under development, or 
undergoing major modification. 
 Information system type: Type, such as major application or support system. 
 Description/purpose: A brief description (one to three paragraphs) of the function and 
purpose of the system. 
 System environment: A general description of the technical system, including the primary 
hardware, software, and communications equipment. 
 System interconnections/information sharing: Other systems/information assets that interact 
with this information system. 
 Related laws/regulations/policies: Any laws, regulations, or policies that establish specific 
requirements for confidentiality, integrity, or availability of the system and information 
retained by, transmitted by, or processed by the system. 
 Existing security controls: Description of each control. 
 Planned security controls: Description of each control plus implementation plan. 
 Information system security plan completion date: The target date. 
 Information system security plan approval date: The data plan approved date.