Identify 
The identification phase is initiated when there is a request for a forensic analysis. This phase involves 
understanding the purpose of the request and the scope of the investigation, such as type of case, 
subjects involved, and system involved. A forensic analyst must determine if a request contains 
sufficient information to start the process. If not, the analyst must coordinate with the requester to 
determine the next step. 
 
The identification phase determines where the data of interest are stored and what data can be 
recovered and retrieved. Another task of this phase is to set up and validate forensic hardware and 
software and create system configuration as needed. 
 
Collect 
Once the location or locations of data are identified, the forensic process needs to ensure that the 
data are collected in a manner that preserves the integrity of the evidence. Typically, enterprise policy 
requires the use of special-purpose forensic hardware and software to ensure that the original data 
are never altered and that the evidence collected stands up to legal scrutiny. Once the data are 
collected, they are verified and backed up to ensure that a valid image exists.  
The data collection process includes one or more of the following, depending on the purpose of the 
forensic analysis: 

 Capturing data from system logs, event logs, and incident logs 
 Discovering data on computer systems 
 Recovering deleted, encrypted, or damaged file information 
 Monitoring online activity 
 Making a bit-image copy of an affected system’s hard drive 
 Detecting violations of corporate policy 

For this phase, as well as the preservation phase, an organization should use forensic software tools 
that are well known in the computer forensics community, such as Forensic Tool Kit (FTK) and EnCase. 
 
Preserve 
Several actions comprise the preservation of data process, including the following: 
 
 Creating a log that documents when, from where, how, and by whom data were collected 
 Storing the data in a secure fashion to prevent tampering or contamination 
 Logging each access to the data made for forensic analysis 