Especially important is the management of personnel with privileged user access to information and 
IT assets. 

It is important for executive management—and indeed for all employees—to understand that 
cybersecurity is not exclusively—or even primarily—a technical challenge to be relegated to the work 
of IT and security professionals. As the Council on Cyber-Security points out in its Cybersecurity 
Workforce Handbook [COCS14], cybersecurity is similar to health and safety considerations, in which 
the actions of each employee affect the health and safety of everyone. In the case of cybersecurity, 
the actions of any one employee can compromise security for the entire organization. Technical fixes 
cannot remove vulnerabilities inherent in the workforce itself, including social engineering (such as 

emails with malicious links), poor credential management (such as weak or unprotected passwords), 
and use of insecure or poorly configured devices and applications (such as connecting “dirty” thumb 
drives or installing applications from unverified websites). 
Thus, all employees, through awareness training, should learn basic security practice. Fortunately, 
many of the tasks associated with this effort are not onerous. Rather, there are some basic tasks that 
every employee can perform to ensure good cyber hygiene. 
 
Security problems caused by employees fall into two categories: non-malicious and malicious. Some 
people unwittingly aid in the commission of security incidents by failing to follow proper procedure, 
by forgetting security considerations, and by not understanding what they are doing. If an organization 
does not have effective awareness and training programs, a problem could occur because an 
employee was never told what constitutes proper procedure in terms of security. Such behavior does 
not involve a motive to cause harm. It may be either accidental, when there is no decision to act 
inappropriately, or it may be negligent, when there is a conscious decision to act inappropriately. As 
an example of the latter case, someone may take a shortcut to increase productivity or simply to avoid 
hassle but might feel that he or she can do so without causing a security incident. 
Other people knowingly violate controls and procedures to cause or aid in security incidents. The 
security problems caused by such persons can exceed those caused by outsiders, as employees with 
privileged access are the ones who know the controls and know what information of value may be 
present.