The Importance of Threat Intelligence

The primary purpose of threat intelligence is to help organizations understand the risks of the most 
common and severe external threats, such as advanced persistent threats (APTs), exploits, and zero-
day threats. Although threat actors also include internal (or insider) and partner threats, the emphasis 
is on the types of external threats that are most likely to affect a particular organization’s environment. 
Threat intelligence includes in-depth information about specific threats to help an organization 
protect itself against the types of attacks that could do them the most damage. 
 
advanced persistent threat (APT): A network attack in which an unauthorized person gains access to 
a network and stays there, undetected, for a long period of time. The intention of an APT attack is to 
steal data rather than to cause damage to the network or organization. APT attacks target 
organizations in sectors with high-value information, such as national defense, manufacturing, and 
the financial industry. APTs differ from other types of attacks in their careful target selection and 
persistent, often stealthy, intrusion efforts over extended periods. 
 
Exploit: An attack on a computer system, especially one that takes advantage of a particular 
vulnerability the system offers to intruders. 
 
zero-day threat: The threat of an unknown security vulnerability in a computer software or 
application for which either a patch has not been released or the application developers are 
unaware or have not had sufficient time to address the issue. A zero-day attack is also 
sometimes defined as an attack that takes advantage of a security vulnerability on the 
same day that the vulnerability becomes generally known. 
 
As an example of the importance of threat intelligence, Figure 15.4, based on one in the 
Information Systems Audit and Control Association’s (ISACA’s) Responding to Targeted 
Cyberattacks [ISAC13], illustrates the impact of threat intelligence on an APT attack. 
 