7.4 Security Monitoring and Improvement Best Practices 
 
The SGP breaks down the best practices in the security monitoring and improvement category into 
two areas and eight topics and provides detailed checklists for each topic. The areas and topics are as 
follows: 

 Security audit: This area provides guidance for conducting thorough, independent, and regular 
audits of the security status of target environments (critical business environments, 
processes, applications, and supporting systems/networks). 
 Security audit management: The objective of this topic is to ensure that security controls have 
been implemented effectively and that risk is being adequately managed and to provide the 
owners of target environments and executive management with an independent assessment 
of their security status. 
 Security audit process—planning: Provides guidance on a methodology for security 
audits. 
 Security audit process—fieldwork: Provides a checklist of actions related to collecting 
relevant background material, performing security audit tests, and recording the 
results of the tests. 
 Security audit process—reporting: Provides a checklist of items that should be in the 
security audit report, as well as guidance on the reporting process. 
 Security audit process—monitoring: Provides a checklist of actions to ensure the risks 
identified during security audits are treated effectively, compliance requirements are 
being met, and agreed security controls are being implemented within agreed time 
scales. 
 Security performance: This area provides guidance for monitoring information risks; 
compliance with the security-related elements of legal, regulatory, and contractual 
requirements; and the overall information security condition of the organization on a regular 
basis, reporting the results to specific audiences, such as executive management. 
 Security monitoring and performance: The objective of this topic is to ensure that there is a 
reporting function that provides selected audiences with a relevant, accurate, comprehensive, 
and coherent assessment of information security performance.  
 Information risk reporting: The objective of this topic is to ensure that there is a reporting 
function that provides executive management with an accurate, comprehensive, and 
coherent view of information risk across the organization. 
 Information security compliance monitoring: This topic provides guidelines for a security 
management process that should be established, which comprises information security 
controls derived from regulatory and legal drivers and contracts.