Figure 12.1 suggests the principal components of a network management system. Each network node 
contains a collection of software devoted to the network management task, referred to in the diagram 
as a network management entity (NME). 
Each NME performs the following tasks: 

 Collects statistics on communications and network-related activities 
 Stores statistics locally 
 Responds to commands from the network control center, including commands to do the 
following: 
 Transmit collected statistics to the network control center 
 Change a parameter (for example, a timer used in a transport protocol) 
 Provide status information (for example, parameter values, active links) 
 Generate artificial traffic to perform a test 
 Sends messages to the NCC when local conditions undergo significant changes 

At least one host in the network is designated as the network control host, or manager. In addition to 
the NME software, the network control host includes a collection of software called the network 
management application (NMA). The NMA includes an operator interface to allow an authorized user 
to manage the network. The NMA responds to user commands by displaying information and/or by 
issuing commands to NMEs throughout the network. This communication is carried out using an 
application-level network management protocol that employs the communications architecture in the 
same fashion as any other distributed application. 
Every other node in the network that is part of the network management system includes an NME 
and, for purposes of network management, is referred to as an agent. Agents include end systems 
that support user applications as well as nodes that provide a communications service, such as front-
end processors, cluster controllers, bridges, and routers. 
As depicted in Figure 12.1, the network control host communicates with and controls the NMEs in 
other systems. For maintaining high availability of the network management function, two or more 
network control hosts are used. In normal operation, one of the hosts is actively used for control, 
while the others are idle or simply collecting statistics. If the primary network control host fails, the 
backup system is used.