Stateful Inspection Firewalls 
A traditional packet filter makes filtering decisions on an individual packet basis and does not take into 
consideration any higher-layer context. To understand what is meant by context and why a traditional 
packet filter is limited with regard to context, a little background is needed. Most standardized 
applications that run on top of TCP follow a client/server model. For example, for the SMTP, email is 
transmitted from  a client system to a server system. The client system generates new email messages, 
typically from user input. The server system accepts incoming email messages and places them in the 
appropriate user mailboxes. SMTP operates by setting up a TCP connection between client and server, 
in which the TCP server port number, which identifies the SMTP server application, is 25. The TCP port 
number for the SMTP client is a number between 1024 and 65535 that is generated by the SMTP 
client. 

In general, when an application that uses TCP creates a session with a remote host, it creates a TCP 
connection in which the TCP port number for the remote (server) application is a number less than 
1024 and the TCP port number for the local (client) application is a number between 1024 and 65535. 
The numbers less than 1024 are the “well-known” port numbers and are assigned permanently to 
particular applications (for example, 25 for server SMTP). The numbers between 1024 and 65535 are 
generated dynamically and have temporary significance only for the lifetime of a TCP connection. 
A simple packet filtering firewall must permit inbound network traffic on all these high-numbered 
ports for TCP-based traffic to occur. This creates a vulnerability that can be exploited by unauthorized 
users. 
A stateful inspection packet firewall tightens up the rules for TCP traffic by creating a directory of 
outbound TCP connections, as shown in Table 12.3. There is an entry for each currently established 
connection. The packet filter now allows incoming traffic to high-numbered ports only for those 
packets that fit the profile of one of the entries in this directory. 