General guidelines for checking applicants include the following: 
 Ask an applicant for as much detail as possible about employment and educational history. 
The more detail that is provided, the more difficult it is for the applicant to lie consistently. 
 Investigate the accuracy of the applicant’s details to a reasonable extent. 
 Arrange for experienced staff members to interview candidates and discuss discrepancies. 
For highly sensitive positions, more intensive investigation is warranted. The Information Technology 
Security Handbook [SADO03] gives the following examples of measures that may be warranted in 
some circumstances: 
 Have an investigation agency do a background check. 
 Get a criminal record check of the individual. 
 Check the applicant’s credit record for evidence of large personal debt and inability to pay it. 
Discuss problems, if you find them, with the applicant. People who are in debt should not be 
denied jobs: If they are, they will never be able to regain solvency. At the same time, 
employees who are under financial strain may be more likely to act improperly. 
 Consider conducting a polygraph examination of the applicant (if legal). Although polygraph 
examinations are not always accurate, they can be helpful if you have a particularly sensitive 
position to fill. 
 
Ask the applicant to obtain bonding for his or her position. 
For many employees, these steps are excessive. However, an employer should conduct extra checks 
of any employee who will be in a position of trust or privileged access—including maintenance and 
cleaning personnel. 
In addition, after employment commences, managers should remain alert to changes in employees’ 
personal circumstances that could increase incentives for system misuse or fraud.

Employment Agreements 
As part of their contractual obligation, employees should agree and sign the terms and conditions of 
their employment contract, which should state their and the organization’s responsibilities for 
information security. The agreement should include a confidentiality and non-disclosure agreement 
that spells out specifically that the organization’s information assets are confidential unless classified 
otherwise and that the employee must protect that confidentiality. Confidentiality agreements put all 
parties on notice that the organization owns its information, expects strict confidentiality, and 
prohibits information sharing except for that required for legitimate business needs. The agreement 
should also reference the organization’s security policy and indicate that the employee has reviewed 
and agrees to abide by the policy.