Records Management 

Records management is a vital business function that requires stronger security measures than those for document 
management. You should treat as records those documents that have significant business value or are within the scope of 
relevant laws or regulations. A general process for records management is shown in Figure 6.6. 

Important guidelines for securing records include: 
 Develop clear and detailed policies that define what documents should be classified as 
records. 
 Store only a single instance of the document, whether it is physical or electronic. 
 Define access restrictions as tightly as is reasonable. 
 Monitor each record to ensure compliance with the organization’s records retention policy. 
 Ensure secure destruction of a record or secure archival of the record when the retention 
period has expired. 
The Information Security Guide developed by the Higher Education Information Security Council 
(HEISC), suggests the following considerations for developing a records management program 
[HEIS14]: 
 Establish a strategic planning group that includes top managers/executives to support the 
program. 
 Write and communicate a directive on the objectives of the program, which should link to 
organizational goals. 
 Identify a records manager to oversee all aspects of the program, including ongoing 
management and use of internal personnel or outside consultants. 
 Write a policy statement identifying purpose, responsibility, objectives, and so on. 
 Determine staffing and organizational structure for overseeing the program’s day-to-day 
operations.
 Conduct a preliminary file purge of non-records from filing systems. 
 Complete a records inventory. 
 Develop and implement a retention schedule. 
 Protect the vital records of the organization. 
 Develop a records management manual with defined policies and procedures. 
 Implement filing standards throughout. 
 Identify a process for managing inactive records in a low-cost space. 
 Implement forms management and reports management programs. 
 Automate records management where it makes sense to do so. 
 Make records management a high priority.