Identifying Information Types 
 
The first step of the security categorization process according to SP 800-60 is to identify the 
information types to be classified. The result of this step should be an information taxonomy or catalog 
of information types. The level of detail, or granularity, must be decided by those involved in security 
governance. The determination may be based on factors such as the size of the organization, its range 
of activities, and the perceived overall level of risk. 

The identification process must cover all forms of information, including: 
 Electronic, consisting of data that can be stored, transmitted, and processed 
 Electronic communication, such as email and text messages 
 Spoken communication, such as telephone, Skype, and teleconferencing 
 Multimedia information, such as video presentations and surveillance camera recordings 
 Physical information, such as paper documents 

SP 800-60 suggests three general organizational areas from which individual information types are 
defined:

 Mission-based information: This area encompasses types of information that relate 
specifically to the mission of the organization. For example, an organization in the 
healthcare field has information on what healthcare delivery services it provides, fee 
schedules, insurance arrangements, and policies for providing financial help to clients. A 
technology company has information about its research and development plans and 
goals, outside consulting arrangements, and long-range plans for new technology. 
 Services delivery support functions: These are types of information that support the 
operation of the organization and relate to specific services or products offered by the 
organization. For example, in the area of risk management and mitigation, information 
types include contingency planning, continuity of operations, and service recovery. 
 Back office support functions: These support activities enable the organization to operate 
effectively. SP 800-60 identifies five main groups of information types in this area: 
 Administrative management 
 Financial management 
 Human resource management 
 Information management 
 Technology management 
As an example, in the information and technology management group, SP 800-60 lists system and 
network monitoring as an information type, with the following suggested classification: 
{(confidentiality, Moderate), (integrity, Moderate), (availability, Low)} 
Whatever classification scheme an organization uses, it needs to have clear definitions of the various 
classification levels so that all those involved in classifying information types are working with the 
same understanding. A useful tool in this context is the Business Impact Reference Table (BIRT; refer 
to Figure 3.11 in Chapter, “Information Risk Assessment”), which provides consistent definitions to 
different types of impacts and severity levels. 