Acceptable Use Policy for IM 
A template for an instant messaging acceptable use policy developed by InfoTech includes the 
following rules that comprise the policy: 

1. Supported IM Solution: [Company Name] has selected [name IM solution] as its sole provider 
of corporate IM services. Non-sanctioned IM services could affect network security, so the 
corporate firewall has been configured to block them. Free IM services commonly used within 
the consumer market are NOT approved or supported by the IT department. 
2. Instant Messaging Usage & Security Policy https://www.infotech.com/research/instant-
messaging-usage-and-security-policy 
3. Acceptable Use: IM services are to be used for business communications and for the purpose 
of fulfilling job duties, in accordance with corporate goals and objectives. Use of IM 
communications in this manner between [Company Name] employees and project teams is 
permitted and encouraged. It is expected that all employees will communicate professionally 
with colleagues, keeping in mind that foul language and slang terms are not allowed. [Note: If 
IT allows external IM communications with business partners or clients, these can be referred 
to here. However, this should only be done with added security features provided by IM 
security vendors.] 
4. Confidentiality: The transmission of sensitive corporate information through IM for business 
purposes is not permitted. Truly sensitive communications should be conducted through 
encrypted email or in-person meetings. Employees are prohibited from sending client lists, 
personal information, credit card information, trade secrets, and other proprietary 
information through the corporate IM service. In addition, it is prohibited to discuss legal 
advice or questions through IM with corporate lawyers, as this can violate the attorney-client 
privilege. 
5. File Sharing: Though many IM services support the transmission of files, this feature has been 
blocked for IM at [Company Name]. [Note: Although InfoTech recommends the banning of file 
sharing altogether, if advanced network-based security controls are in place, this section can 
be modified to include that file sharing is permitted and that all files will be automatically 
scanned for viruses and monitored by IT.] 
6. Personal Use: Limited personal use of corporate IM services to communicate internally with 
colleagues at [Company Name] regarding non-work-related matters is permitted during 
designated work breaks and lunch hours only. Even during allotted personal IM usage periods, 
employees may not use the service for unsolicited mass mailings, non-[Company Name] 
commercial activity, operation of a privately owned business, solicitation of funds, 
dissemination of political causes, or promotion of religious/personal beliefs to others. 
7. Compliance: IM use at [Company Name] will comply with, all [Company Name] policies, all 
[Company Name] contracts and all applicable laws.  
8. Privacy: IM conversations and messages created on the corporate IM service and transmitted 
through corporate systems will be considered the property of [Company Name]. [Company 
Name] reserves the right to monitor, inspect, copy, review, store, and audit IM usage and 
messages generated by or for the enterprise. [Company Name] is also obligated to disclose 
IM messages and conversations when ordered to do so by auditors, courts, and law 
enforcement, with or without the employee’s consent. Given these factors, employees do not 
have a reasonable expectation of privacy when using corporate IM services. 
 