Information Security Metric Development Process 

Figure 18.2, from SP 800-55, illustrates the process 

of developing information security metrics. It shows how this process takes place within a larger 
organizational context and demonstrates that information security metrics are used to 
progressively measure implementation, efficiency, effectiveness, and the business impact of 
information security activities within organizations or for specific systems. 

The information security metric development process consists of two major activities: 

1. Identifying and defining the current information security program 
2. Developing and selecting specific metrics to measure implementation, efficiency, 
effectiveness, and the impact of the security controls 

The first four phases shown in Figure 18.2 summarize the information security program development 
process discussed earlier in this book. Based on inputs from stakeholders and other interests, security 
goals and objectives are developed. The goals and objectives lead to the development of security 
policies, which in turn guide security program implementation. 

Phases 5, 6, and 7 in Figure 18.2 involve developing metrics that measure process implementation, 
effectiveness and efficiency, and mission impact. The organization selects metrics that measure 
performance, identify causes of unsatisfactory performance, and identify areas for improvement. The 
metrics also provide guidance for the security manager to facilitate consistent policy implementation, 
effect information security policy changes, and refine goals and objectives. 
Figure 18.2 shows the manner in which the development of a set of metrics interacts with the system 
program development process. Payne’s “A Guide to Security Metrics” [PAYN06] provides guidance on 
implementing a metrics program consisting of the following steps: 

1. Define the metrics program goal(s) and objectives. For example, a goal could be expressed as 
“Provide metrics that clearly and simply communicate how efficiently and effectively our 
company is balancing security risks and preventive measures, so that investments in our 
security program can be appropriately sized and targeted to meet our overall security 
objectives.” 
    The objectives could include the following: 
 “To base the security metrics program on process improvement best practices within our 
company.” 
 “To leverage any relevant measurements currently being collected.” 
 “To communicate metrics in formats custom-tailored to various audiences.” 
 “To involve stakeholders in determining what metrics to produce.