SEM Best Practices 
Because SEM systems interact with virtually all other systems in an IT environment, deployment of 
SEM system is a large and complex project and needs to be planned and implemented carefully. 
Plan 
 SEM planning begins with understanding the scope of the project, in the context of the 
enterprise. The blog post “Preparing for Security Event Management” [HUTT07] lists the 
following considerations in planning an SEM system: 

 Depending on such factors as the complexity of the infrastructure, SEM tools, and configured 
pattern/logic, the deployment of an implementation can take from a month up to a year. 
 The load generated by SEMS may require the use of several dedicated servers. 
 The real-time nature of alerts may result is substantial volumes of data. Thus the SEM planners 
need to carefully consider performance and sizing requirements. 
 A large, distributed installation requires careful network planning, that includes consideration 
of bandwidth demands and modes of failure. 
 Some systems require the installation of agents to relay information to SEM collectors, while 
others are agentless. 
 Any return on investment (ROI) from SEM is proportional to the care and attention spent 
training analysts in its proper use. 
With an understanding of the scale of a SEM project, a management team assigns responsibilities and 
authority for aspects of the project and determines which IT and IT security staff need to be involved 
in development, deployment, and use of SEM. At this point, it is important to address more specific 
questions about the SEM to guide acquisition and development, including the following: 

 Which systems should be monitored? 
 Which events are important, and what information should be collected from the local logs? 
 Where should the central event log be stored, and how will it be protected and accessed? 
 How long should log data be retained? 
 How will the event data be analyzed to generate meaningful alerts and metrics? 
 How will the performance of the SEM system be monitored? 

Assess 
The current security status of an IT system needs to be assessed. This involves performing a baseline 
vulnerability assessment on existing systems. At minimum, a team should remedy the most serious 
vulnerabilities for the most valuable assets. Once this is done, the team needs to assess the SEM 
requirements for the enterprise. The blog post “Preparing for Security Event Management” [HUTT07] 
lists the following objectives: 

 Understand your priorities. What systems should you plug into the SEM first, and what part 
of your IT is subject to the most attacks?  
 Determine which portions of the IT infrastructure are critical. This will dictate the level of alert 
level settings configure within the SEM for various IT infrastructure components. 
 Determine which events are logged and which are not, as well as the level of detail of the 
logging for each logged event. 
 Develop an inventory of all security products, their intended use, and whether or not each 
product is being used properly. 
 Understand where you need vulnerability remediation before event management. SEM 
software works best when used to monitor well-configured systems; it does not fix things that 
are currently insecure or broken.