VoIP Processing 
In a VoIP system, when a called party responds, a logical connection is established between the two 
parties (or more parties, for a conference call), and voice data can be exchanged in both directions. 

Figure 12.10 illustrates the basic flow of voice data in one direction in a VoIP system. On the sending side, 
the analog voice signal is first converted into a digital bit stream and then segmented into packets. The 
packetization is performed, typically, by RTP. This protocol includes mechanisms for labeling the packets 
so that they can be reassembled in the proper order at the receiving end, plus a buffering function to smooth 
out reception and deliver the voice data in a continuous flow. The RTP packets are then transmitted 
across the Internet or a private intranet using User Datagram Protocol (UDP) and IP. 
At the receiving end, the process is reversed. The packet payloads are reassembled by RTP and put into 
the proper order. The data are then decompressed, and the digitized voice is processed by a digital-to-
analog converter to produce analog signals for the receiver’s telephone or headset speaker. 
 
VoIP Context 
Ultimately, VoIP using IP-based networks may replace the public circuit-switched networks in use today. But for the 
foreseeable future, VoIP must coexist with the existing telephony infrastructure. Figure 12.11 shows some of the key 
elements involved in the coexistence of these older and newer 
technologies. The deployment of the VoIP infrastructure is accompanied by 
a variety of end-user products, including the following: 

 Traditional telephone handset: These corded or cordless units function much like traditional 
telephones but are VoIP capable. They typically have many additional features, making use of a screen, and 
providing capabilities similar to those of smartphones. 
 Conferencing units: These provide the same basic service as conventional conference calling 
phone systems and also allow users to coordinate other data communications services, such 
as text, graphics, video, and whiteboarding. 
 Mobile units: Smartphones and other cellphones with VoIP capability can tie directly into a 
VoIP network without needing to go through any kind of gateway system. 
 Softphone: The term softphone refers to software operating on a PC that implements VoIP. 
Typically, the PC is configured with a headset or with a telephone that makes use of a USB 
connection to the PC.

A wide variety of infrastructure equipment has been developed to support VoIP. There are two 
noteworthy types: 

 IP PBX: The IP PBX is designed to support digital and analog phones and connect to IP-based 
networks using VoIP, as well as provide a connection to the public switched telephone 
network using traditional technology, if needed. 
 Media gateway: The media gateway connects different physical networks in order to provide 
end-to-end connectivity. An important type of media gateway connects a VoIP network to a 
circuit-switched telephone network, providing the necessary conversion and signaling. 
The VoIP environment continues to evolve, and a large number of products are being developed for 
providers, businesses, and residential/personal users. 