Security Awareness 
Because all employees have security responsibilities, all employees must have suitable awareness 
training. Awareness seeks to focus an individual’s attention on an issue or a set of issues. Awareness 
is a program that continually pushes the security message to users in a variety of formats. Note that a 
security awareness program must reach all employees, not just those with access to IT resources. Such 
topics as physical security, protocols for admitting visitors, social media rules, and social engineering 
threats are concerns with all employees. 
The overall objective of the organization should be to develop a security awareness program that 
permeates to all levels of the organization and that is successful in promoting an effective security 
culture. To that end, the awareness program must be ongoing, focused on the behavior of various 
categories of people, monitored, and evaluated. 
security awareness: The extent to which staff understand the importance of information security, the 
level of security required by the organization, and their individual security responsibilities. 
security culture: The extent to which staff demonstrate expected security behavior in line with their 
individual security responsibilities and the level of security required by the organization. 
Specific goals for a security awareness program should include: 

 Providing a focal point and a driving force for a range of awareness, training, and educational 
activities related to information security, some of which might already be in place but perhaps 
need to be better coordinated and more effective 
  Communicating important recommended guidelines or practices required to secure 
information resources 
 Providing general and specific information about information security risks and controls to 
people who need to know 
 Making individuals aware of their responsibilities in relation to information security 
 Motivating individuals to adopt recommended guidelines or practices 
 Being driven by risk considerations (for example, assigning risk levels to different groups of 
individuals, based on their job function, level of access to assets, access privileges, and so on) 
 Providing employees with an understanding of the different types of inappropriate behavior—
such as malicious, negligent, and accidental—and how to avoid negligent behavior or 
accidental behavior and recognize malicious behavior in others 
negligent behavior: Behavior that does not involve a motive to cause harm but does involve a 
conscious decision to act inappropriately (for example, using unauthorized services or devices to save 
time, increase productivity, or enable remote working).

accidental behavior: Behavior that does not involve a motive to harm or a conscious decision to act 
inappropriately (for example, emailing sensitive information to unauthorized recipients, opening 
malicious email attachments, publishing personal information on publicly available servers). 
malicious behavior: Behavior that involves a combination of motive to cause harm and a conscious 
decision to act inappropriately (for example, copying business files before taking employment with a 
competitor, leaking sensitive information, misusing information for personal gain).