6.3 Security Event Logging 
This section begins with a discussion of the distinction between security events and security incidents 
and then examines the key objective in performing security event logging. The remainder of this 
section deals with details of the security event logging function. 
In the information security field, a distinction is commonly made between events and incidents: 
 Security event: An occurrence considered by an organization to have potential security 
implications to a system or its environment. Security events identify suspicious or anomalous 
activity. Events sometimes provide indications that incident are occurring. 
 Security incident: An occurrence that actually or potentially jeopardizes the confidentiality, 
integrity, or availability of an information system; or the information the system processes, 
stores, or transmits; or that constitutes a violation or imminent threat of violation of security 
policies, security procedures, or acceptable use policies. 

A related concept is an indicator of compromise (IoC). IoCs are specific techniques used in the course 
of an attack, which may appear as anomalous behavior. SP 800-53, Recommended Security Controls 
for Federal Information Systems and Organizations, defines IoCs as forensic artifacts from intrusions 
that are identified on organizational information systems (at the host or network level). IOCs provide 
organizations with valuable information on objects or information systems that were compromised. 
IOCs for the discovery of compromised hosts include for example, the creation of registry key values. 
IOCs for network traffic include, for example, uniform resource locators (URLs) or protocol elements 
that indicate malware command-and-control servers. The rapid distribution and adoption of IOCs improve information security by reducing the time 
during which information systems and organizations are vulnerable to the same exploit or attack. 
The term security event covers both events that are security incidents and 
those that are not, as shown in Figure 15.2