The base metric group represents the intrinsic characteristics of a vulnerability that are constant over 
time and across user environments. It consists of three sets of metrics: 

 Exploitability: These metrics reflect the ease and technical means by which the vulnerability 
is exploited. The metrics are: 
 Attack vector: As mentioned, this metric is a measure of how remote an attacker can be from 
the vulnerable component.  
 Attack complexity: Conveys the level of difficulty required for an attacker to exploit a 
vulnerability once the target component is identified. The complexity is rated high if the 
attacker cannot accomplish the attack at will but must invest some measurable amount of 
effort in preparation or execution. 
 Privileges required: Measures the access an attacker requires to exploit a vulnerability. The 
values are none (no privileged access required), low (basic user privileges), and high 
(administrative-level privileges). 
 User interaction: Indicates whether a user other than the attacker must participate for a 
successful attack. 
 Impact: These metrics indicate the degree of impact on the primary security objectives 
confidentiality, integrity, and availability. In each of these cases, the score reflects the worst 
outcome if more than one component is affected (scope = changed). For each of the three 
objectives, the values are high (total loss of confidentiality, integrity, or availability), low (some 
loss), and none. 
 Scope: This metric is grouped within the base metric group although it is somewhat 
independent of the remainder of the group. It refers to the ability for a vulnerability in one 
software component to impact resources beyond its means, or privileges. An example is a 
vulnerability in a virtual machine that enables an attacker to delete files on the host operating 
system. An unchanged value of this metric means that the vulnerability can only affect 
resources managed by the same authority. 
 
Generally, the base and temporal metrics are specified by vulnerability bulletin analysts, security 
product vendors, or application vendors because they typically have better information about the 
characteristics of a vulnerability than do users. The environmental metrics, however, are specified by 
users because they are best able to assess the potential impact of a vulnerability within their own 
environments.