Incident Detection 
  
Sections 15.2 and 15.3 discuss event logging and management in some detail. As part of the incident 
response life cycle, security incidents must be detected from among the numerous security events 
logged and recorded. 
 
Key aspects of incident detection include the following: 
 
 All IT personnel and users need to be trained and comfortable regarding procedures for 
reporting failures, weaknesses, and suspected incidents; methods to recognize and detect 
problems with security protections; and how to escalate reporting appropriately. 
 Technical controls must be implemented for the automated detection of security incidents 
from event logs, coupled with reporting that is as near real time as possible. Key technical 
tools include IDSs and continuously monitoring antivirus software. 
 Situational awareness information needs to be collected from internal and external data 
sources, including local system and network traffic and activity logs; news feeds concerning 
ongoing political, social, or economic activities that might impact incident activity; and 
external feeds on incident trends, new attack vectors, current attack indicators, and new 
mitigation strategies and technologies. 
 Digital evidence needs to be gathered and stored securely, and its secure preservation must 
be continually monitored in case the evidence is required for legal prosecution or internal 
disciplinary action. 

Analysis 
 
Once an incident is detected, it is appropriate to move immediately to the next phase of the life cycle, 
which deals with removing the threat and recovery from any damage. Most enterprises choose to do 
a more in-depth analysis at this point. Typical actions include the following: 
 
 Determine the magnitude of the impact. Consider the number of users affected or the number 
of devices or the segments of the network. 
 Assess the severity. What is the sensitivity of the data involved? What is the criticality of the 
service, or system, or application? What is the potential for damage or liability? 
 Assess the urgency of the event. Is it an active problem, a threat, or an event-in-progress? 
Was the problem discovered after the fact? Is the intrusion dormant or completed? Does this 
involve use of an account rather than a system? Does this involve the safety or privacy of 
individuals? 
 
The analysis also needs to determine whether immediate action is needed to remove the vulnerability 
or to block the action that enabled the incident to occur. Such analysis may also be part of the post-
incident activity phase.