The six phases are as follows: 
1. Two- to five-year business and technology outlook: At the beginning of the year, the planning 
team takes as input an overall vision and mission statement developed at the enterprise level. 
During this phase, the team reviews the enterprise strategies, technology trends, employee 
trends, and so on to better understand the future environment that will shape the IT 
organization and its deliverables. IT subject matter experts from throughout the organization 
are recruited to help define the major trends that may be critical in shaping the organization 
and its decision making in the next few years. 
2. Strategic deep dive: The team identifies a small number of high-impact areas that require 
more in-depth analysis to inform the overall strategic planning process. Depending on 
circumstances at a given point in time, these may include IoT, social media trends, and 
changing regulatory compliance rules. 
3. Current-state assessment: The planning team analyzes the current state of all the IT-related 
systems and policies and compares these with the long-range outlook, paying special 
attention to the key drivers developed in the preceding phase. The result is a set of 
recommendations for adjustments to IT’s focus areas and spending plans. 
4. Imperatives, roadmaps, and finances: The next phase is the development of a strategic plan 
for IT. The plan includes a discussion of strategic objectives and a budget and investment plan. 
The plan reflects IT’s highest-priority items and provides an outcome framework for defining 
success. Each item includes a roadmap that can influence budget and organization decisions 
in the upcoming year. 
5. Governance process and decision making: Once the annual budget is approved, the 
information from the preceding phases is used to guide the governance process and the many 
decisions made across the organization to implement the strategic plan and one-year strategic 
objectives. These decisions include project chartering, supplier selection, sourcing, 
investment trade-off decisions, and so on. 
6. Regular reviews: Monthly reviews based on a wide variety of input help ensure that the 
strategic plan and governance decisions are followed. This culminates in a year-end 
assessment. Reviews continue into the following year until a new strategic plan and new 
governance decisions provide input for modifying the review process. 
This process can include a security strategic planning component, or planning can occur in a 
coordinated and parallel fashion in another team.