The Modern IT Perimeter 
Traditionally, the enterprise network perimeter was defined by the physical interface between 
network devices, such as routers, and external networks, such as the Internet and private WANs. For 
today’s enterprise, the perimeter is better defined by each node on the network and not the network 
itself. Key elements that break traditional network perimeter security are the following: 
 
 Wireless access points (APs): Wi-Fi APs that are either unknowingly or maliciously deployed 
inside the enterprise network enable mobile devices on the premises or near the premises to 
gain access to resources on the enterprise network. 
An IBM red paper [BUEC09] suggests that the following elements should comprise network perimeter 
defense in a wireless environment: 
 The ability to globally enforce host-based security software deployed to the mobile systems 
known to access the enterprise network 
 Scanning for, discovering, and blocking unknown devices 
 Monitoring traffic patterns, communications, and transmitted data to discover how the 
enterprise network is being used and to uncover unwanted or threatening traffic from mobile 
devices

5.4 Virtual Private Networks and IP Security 
 
This section introduces the concept of virtual private networks and examines IPsec, a common security 
mechanism used with VPNs. 
 
Virtual Private Networks 
A virtual private network (VPN) is a private network that is configured within a public network (a 
carrier’s network or the Internet) in order to take advantage of the economies of scale and 
management facilities of large networks. VPNs are widely used by enterprises to create wide area 
networks that span large geographic areas, to provide site-to-site connections to branch offices, and 
to allow mobile users to dial up their company LANs. From the point of view of the provider, the pubic 
network facility is shared by many customers, and the traffic of each customer is segregated from 
other traffic. Traffic designated as VPN traffic can only go from a VPN source to a destination in the 
same VPN. It is often the case that encryption and authentication facilities are provided for the VPN. 
In today’s distributed computing environment, the VPN offers an attractive solution to network 
managers. In essence, a VPN consists of a set of computers that interconnect by means of a relatively 
insecure network and that make use of encryption and special protocols to provide security. At each 
corporate site, workstations, servers, and databases are linked by one or more LANs. The LANs are 
under the control of the network manager and are configured and tuned for cost-effective 
performance. The Internet or some other public network is used to interconnect sites, providing a cost 
savings over the use of a private network and offloading the WAN management task to the public 
network provider. That same public network provides an access path for telecommuters and other 
mobile employees to log on to corporate systems from remote sites. 
 
But the manager faces a fundamental requirement: security. Use of a public network exposes 
corporate traffic to eavesdropping and provides an entry point for unauthorized users. To counter this 
problem, the manager can choose from a variety of encryption and authentication packages and 
products. Proprietary solutions raise a number of problems. First, how secure is the solution? If 
proprietary encryption or authentication schemes are used, there may be little reassurance in the 
technical literature about the level of security provided. Second is the question of compatibility. No 
manager wants to be limited in the choice of workstations, servers, routers, firewalls, and so on by a 
need for compatibility with the security facility. This is the motivation for the IPsec set of Internet 
standards.