European Union’s GDPR 
One of the most comprehensive initiatives is European Union’s (EU’s) General Data Protection 
Regulation (GDPR), approved by the European Parliament in 2016, with an effective enforcement date 
of May 2108. It is designed to harmonize data privacy laws across Europe, to protect and empower all 
EU citizens’ data privacy, and to reshape the way organizations, both public and private, across the 
region approach data privacy. 
Table 6.1 summarizes the key principles at the heart of the GDPR. 
 
Kinast’s 10 Key Facts Businesses Need to Note About the GDPR [KINA16] summarizes important 
aspects of the GDPR that organizations that do business in Europe need to be aware of: 

 The GDPR applies to all companies worldwide that process personal data of EU citizens. Any 
company that works with information related to EU citizens must comply with the 
requirements of the GDPR, making it the first global data protection law. This aspect alone 
contributes significantly to all companies around the world taking data privacy more seriously. 
 The GDPR widens the definition of personal data compared to prior EU regulations. As a result, 
parts of IT that have been unaffected by data protection laws in the past will need attention 
from businesses to ensure that they comply with the new regulation. The GDPR definition 
states that personal data means any information related to an identified or identifiable natural 
person; an identifiable natural person is one who can be identified, directly or indirectly, in 
particular by reference to an identifier such as a name, an identification number, location 
data, an online identifier, or one or more factors specific to the physical, physiological, genetic, 
mental, economic, cultural, or social identity of that natural person.

 The GDPR tightens the rules for obtaining valid consent to use personal information. Having 
the ability to prove valid consent for using personal information is likely to be one of the 
biggest challenges presented by the GDPR. The GDPR states that the consent of the data 
subject means any freely given, specific, informed, and unambiguous indication of his or her 
wishes by which the data subject, either by a statement or by a clear affirmative action, 
signifies agreement to personal data relating to them being processed. 
 The GDPR requires public authorities processing personal information to appoint a data 
protection officer (DPO), as well as other entities, when core activities require regular and 
systematic monitoring of data subjects on a large scale or consist of “processing on a large 
scale of special categories of data.