Vendor assessments 

COBIT 5 makes a distinction between the CISO and the ISM, with the CISO being a C-level position with 
oversight of an ISM, who has operational management responsibilities. Some organizations combine 
the roles of CISO and ISM. For purposes of this chapter, we simply refer to this role as CISO. 
NISTIR 7359, Information Security Guide for Government Executives, provides a useful summary of 
the tasks that comprise information security management Although addressed to government 
executives, NISTIR 7359 discusses the general functional areas of an information security or 
cybersecurity program that should be the responsibility of the CISO in any organization. The key 
security program areas include the following: 

Security planning: Security planning includes strategic security planning, which is defined in Chapter 2 
as the alignment of information security management and operation with enterprise and IT strategic 
planning. But it also includes more detailed planning for the organization, coordination, and 
implementation of security. Key actors within the organization, such as department heads and project 
managers, need to be consulted and brought into the ongoing process of planning. Security planning 
is discussed in more detail in the following section. 

Capital planning: Capital planning is designed to facilitate and control the expenditure of the 
organization’s funds. Part of the planning process, and part of the CISO’s responsibility, is to prioritize 
potential IT security investments for allocating available funding. Capital planning overlaps with 
security planning and is discussed subsequently in this section. 
capital planning 
A decision-making process for ensuring that IT investments integrate strategic planning, budgeting, 
procurement, and the management of IT in support of an organization’s missions and business needs. 
 Awareness and training: Awareness and training programs ensure that personnel at all levels 
of the organization understand their information security responsibilities to properly use and  
protect the information resources entrusted to them. Chapter, “People Management,” covers 
this topic. 
 Information security governance: The CISO should advise C-level executives and the board 
concerning the development of effective security governance, which is covered in Chapter 2. 
 System development life cycle: This is the overall process of developing, implementing, and 
retiring information systems. Chapter, “System Development,” is devoted to this topic. 
 Security products and services acquisition: Management supervision of the acquisition of 
security-related products and services includes considering the costs involved, the underlying 
security requirements, and the impact on the organizational mission, operations, strategic 
functions, personnel, and service-provider arrangements. Acquisition is discussed 
subsequently in this section. 
 Risk management: This topic is discussed in previous Chapters. 
Configuration management: The CISO should employ configuration management to ensure adequate 
consideration of the potential security impacts due to specific changes to an information system or its 
surrounding environment. 