Document and Records Management 
A specific class of information consists of documents and records. There are no standardized, 
universally accepted definitions in this realm, but for this context, the following definitions are 
appropriate: 

 Document: A set of information pertaining to a topic, structured for human comprehension, 
represented by a variety of symbols, and stored and handled as a unit. A document may be 
modified. 
 Record: A subclass of documents that clearly delineates terms and conditions, statements, or 
claims or that provides an official record. Generally a record, once created, is not modified. 
The following additional definitions are useful for this section: 
 Document management: The capture and management of documents within an organization. 
The term originally implied only the management of documents after they were scanned into 
a computer. Subsequently, it became an umbrella term embracing document imaging, 
workflow, text retrieval, and multimedia. 
 Document management system: Software that manages documents for electronic publishing. 
It generally supports a large variety of document formats and provides extensive access 
control and searching capabilities across networks. A document management system may 
support multiple versions of a document and may be able to combine text fragments written 
by different authors. It often includes a workflow component that routes documents to the 
appropriate users. 
 Records management: The creation, retention, and scheduled destruction of an organization’s 
sensitive or important paper and electronic records. Computer-generated reports fall into the 
records management domain, but traditional data processing files do not. 
 Records management system: Software that provides tools for and aids in records 
management. 

Table 6.2, based on the CMS Wire article “6 Ways Document Management and Records Management 
Differ” [ROE10], summarizes some key differences between document and records management. 
Although the focus of document management and of document management systems is the ease of 
creation and use of documents, security must be an integral aspect. One key element is the 
management of the document life cycle, including creation, categorization, storage, retrieval, 
modification, and destruction. Security mechanisms need to be 
implemented to ensure that security objectives are met during 
each stage of the document life cycle. 
