In general terms, firewalls use four techniques that to control access and enforce the site’s security 
policy. Originally, firewalls focused primarily on service control, but they have since evolved to provide 
all four techniques: 

 Service control: Determines the types of Internet services that can be accessed—inbound or 
outbound. The firewall can filter traffic on the basis of IP address, protocol, or port number; 
provide proxy software that receives and interprets each service request before passing it on; 
or host the server software itself, such as a web or mail service. 
 Direction control: Determines the direction in which particular service requests are initiated 
and allowed to flow through the firewall. 
 User control: Controls access to a service according to which user is attempting to access it. 
This feature is typically applied to users inside the firewall perimeter (local users). It can also 
be applied to incoming traffic from external users, though this requires some form of secure 
authentication technology, such as that provided in IP Security (IPsec). 
 Behavior control: Controls how particular services are used. For example, the firewall can filter 
email to eliminate spam or enable external access to only a portion of the information on a 
local web server. 

Before proceeding to the details of firewall types and configurations, let’s consider the capabilities 
that are within the scope of a firewall: 

 A firewall defines a single choke point that keeps unauthorized users out of the protected 
network, prohibits potentially vulnerable services from entering or leaving the network, and 
provides protection against various kinds of IP spoofing and routing attacks. The use of a single 
choke point simplifies security management because security capabilities are consolidated on 
a single system or set of systems. 
 A firewall provides a location for monitoring security-related events. Audits and alarms are 
implemented on the firewall system. 
 A firewall is a convenient platform for several Internet functions that are not security related. 
These include a network address translator, which maps local addresses to Internet addresses, 
and a network management function, which audits or logs Internet usage. 
 A firewall serves as a platform for implementing virtual private networks (as discussed in the 
following section).