Selecting and Reviewing Impact Levels 
The second step of the security categorization process according to SP 800-60 is to assign security 
impact levels for the identified information types. The worksheet in Figure 3.4 and the asset register 
in Figure 3.5 examples of ways to document this process. 
As an example, in the information and technology management group, SP 800-60 lists system and 
network monitoring as an information type, with the following suggested classification: 
{(confidentiality, Moderate), (integrity, Moderate), (availability, Low)} 
The third step of the security categorization process according to SP 800-60 is simply to review the 
provisional impact levels, allowing a range of managers and information owners to contribute to the 
process.

Assigning Security Categories 
The final step of the security categorization process according to SP 800-60 is to assign a security 
classification for each information type. If the scheme suggested in SP 800-60 is used, the overall 
classification of an information type corresponds to its assessed impact, which is the highest of the 
confidentiality, integrity, and availability impacts. Otherwise, the impact information needs to be 
mapped into a classification scheme. 
 
An important consideration is the naming of each classification level. The name should make sense in 
the context of the classification scheme’s application. Classifying information types and properly 
naming them provide people who deal with information with a concise indication of how to handle 
and protect that information.

Information Labeling 
A label needs to be associated with each instance of an information type so that its classification is 
clearly and unambiguously known. Methods are needed to ensure that a label is not separated from 
the information and that the content of the label is secure from unauthorized modification. The 
organization, for convenience and efficiency, may choose not to label non-confidential information. 
For physical information types, some sort of physical label needs to be attached. This could be a 
readable label or bar code that adheres to the medium. In some cases, a radio-frequency identification 
(RFID) tag, which provides other security functionality, may be attached to the information medium. 
For information stored in electronic form, a number of techniques could be used, including using 
electronic watermarking, labeling headers and footers, embedding labels in metadata (such as 
document properties), and using filename conventions. Digital signatures can be used in electronic 
communications. 
radio-frequency identification (RFID) 
A data collection technology that uses electronic tags attached to items to allow the items to be 
identified and tracked with a remote system. The tag consists of an RFID chip attached to an antenna.