The key issues involved with securing physical information throughout its life cycle include the 
following: 
 Identify and document: Each item of physical information needs to be identified properly and 
its existence documented. 
 Classification: Every physical document or other type of media (for example, DVD) should be 
classified using the same security categories used for all other organization assets. 
 Label: The appropriate security classification label must be affixed to or incorporated into the 
document itself. 
 Storage: Secure storage is needed. This may be a safe, a secure area of the facility, or other 
physical means of restricting and controlling access. 
 Secure transport: If sensitive information is to be sent by a third party, such as a courier or 
shipping service, policies and procedures must be in place to ensure that this is done securely. 
Employees who carry documents must be given guidance and the technical means needed to 
maintain security. 
 Disposal: A retention and disposal policy is needed, and secure means of destroying physical 
information must be followed. 

Information Management Best Practices 

The SGP breaks down the best practices in the information management category into two areas and 
four topics and provides detailed checklists for each topic. The areas and topics are as follows: 
 Information classification and privacy: This area includes the following topics: 
 Information classification and handling: The objective for this topic is to develop an 
information classification scheme that provides consistent classification of all forms 
of information, including electronic, physical, and spoken. The scheme should be 
supported by information handling guidelines to help protect information against 
corruption, loss, and unauthorized disclosure. 
 Information privacy: This topic deals with the need for implementing policies and 
security controls for the handling of PII. The SGP recommends a separate privacy 
policy document and an acceptable use document. Methods are required for 
dealing with breaches, including detection, response, and notification. 
 Information protection: This area includes the following topics: 
 Document management: This topic specifies how to manage documents through 
the life cycle of creation, categorization, storage, retrieval, modification, and 
destruction. Topics covered include employee obligations, backup and archive, 
document retention policy, and enhanced protection for records 
 Sensitive physical information: The objective is to protect sensitive physical 
information in accordance with information security and regulatory requirements, 
preserve the integrity of sensitive physical information, and protect it from 
unauthorized disclosure. The SGP provides checklists for identification and labeling; 
storage of sensitive physical information; protection against unauthorized 
disclosure of sensitive physical information; secure transportation of sensitive 
physical information; and handling and disposing of sensitive physical information.