Privacy Controls 
So far, this section has looked at potential threats to privacy and a broad approach to government 
regulation of privacy. To counter privacy threats and comply with government laws and regulations, 
organizations need a set privacy controls that encompass their privacy requirements and that respond 
to legal requirements. A useful and comprehensive set of such controls is provided in NIST SP 800-53, 
Recommended Security Controls for Federal Information Systems and Organizations. The set is 
organized into 8 families and a total of 24 controls: 
 Authority and purpose: This family ensures that organizations identify the legal bases that 
authorize a particular PII collection or activity that impacts privacy and specify in their notices 
the purpose(s) for which PII is collected. These controls would be embodied in a policy 
statement. 
 Accountability, audit, and risk management: This family consists of controls for governance, 
monitoring, risk management, and assessment to demonstrate that organizations are 
complying with applicable privacy protection requirements and minimizing overall privacy 
risk. It includes the following controls: 
 Governance and privacy program: This includes designating a chief privacy officer, 
monitoring national privacy laws, allocating sufficient resources for an 
organizationwide privacy program, developing a strategic privacy plan, and 
developing a privacy policy. 
 Privacy impact and risk assessment: This includes implementing a risk management 
process and conducting privacy impact assessments where appropriate. 
 Privacy requirements for contractors and service providers: This involves establishing 
and including in contracts privacy responsibilities. 
 Privacy monitoring and auditing: This involves monitoring and auditing privacy 
controls and the internal privacy policy to ensure effective implementation. 
 Privacy awareness and training: This involves implementing awareness programs for 
all employees and training for those with privacy responsibilities. 
 Privacy reporting: This involves developing any mandated privacy reports for 
regulatory bodies.