The functional areas are as follows: 
 
 Computer room: This is the portion of the data center that houses data processing equipment. 
 Entrance room: One or more entrance rooms house external network access provider 
equipment and provide the interface between the computer room equipment and the 
enterprise cabling systems. Physical separation of the entrance room from the computer room 
provides better security. 
 Main distribution area: This centrally located area houses the main cross-connect as well as 
core routers and switches for LAN and SAN (storage area network) infrastructures. 
 Horizontal distribution area (HDA): The HAD serves as the distribution point for horizontal 
cabling and houses cross-connects and active equipment for distributing cable to the 
equipment distribution area. 
 Equipment distribution area (EDA): The EDA is the location of equipment cabinets and racks, 
with horizontal cables terminating with patch panels. 
 Zone distribution area (ZDA): The ZDA is an optional interconnection point in the horizontal 
cabling between the HDA and EDA. The ZDA acts as a consolidation point for reconfiguration 
flexibility or for housing freestanding equipment such as mainframes. 
An important part of TIA-942 that is especially relevant for computer security is the concept of tiered 
reliability. The standard defines four tiers, as shown in Table 12.4. For each of the four tiers, TIA-942 
describes detailed architectural, security, electrical, mechanical, and telecommunications 
recommendations such that the higher the tier, the higher the availability. 

Wireless Access 
The security aspects of network management for wireless access have the objective of ensuring that 
only authorized individuals and computing devices gain wireless access to networks and minimizing 
the risk of wireless transmissions being monitored, intercepted or modified. 
Dennis Kennedy’s article “Best Practices for Wireless Network Security” provides a useful list of risks 
associated with wireless access and mitigation techniques including the following: 
 Insufficient policies, training, and awareness: As with other areas, wireless security controls 
must include policies and user awareness training specifically for wireless access. These 
include procedures regarding uses of wireless devices and an understanding of relevant risks. 