Depending on the size and structure of the institution, the approach to vulnerability scanning can 
differ. Small institutions with a good understanding of IT resources throughout the enterprise can 
centralize vulnerability scanning. Larger institutions are more likely to have some degree of 
decentralization, so vulnerability scanning might be the responsibility of individual units. Some 
institutions have a blend of both centralized and decentralized vulnerability assessment. In any case, 
before starting a vulnerability scanning program, it is important to have authority to conduct the scans 
and to understand the targets to be scanned. 
There are a number of free and commercial vulnerability scanners available for enterprise use. An 
example of a freeware package is the Open Vulnerability Assessment System (OpenVAS), which scans 
for thousands of vulnerabilities and supports concurrent scan tasks and scheduled scans. OpenVAS 
includes a daily updated feed of vulnerability tests. Perhaps the most widely used commercial scanner 
is Nessus. Nessus uses a variety of types of scans and looks for a broad range of vulnerabilities. 
There are two challenges involved in scanning that an enterprise needs to address: 
 Scanning can cause disruptions. The scanning process can impact performance. This is 
especially true with legacy systems, which can have problems even with simple network port 
scans. IT operations staff need to be in the loop. Make them aware of the importance and 
relevance of scans. Also, timing needs to be resolved to ensure that scanning does not conflict 
with regular maintenance schedules. 
 Scanning can generate huge amounts of data and numerous false positives. Technical 
vulnerability management practices produce very large data sets. Accordingly, use frequent 
follow-up evaluations to validate the findings. Reviewing all these vulnerabilities is infeasible. 
Develop a vulnerability prioritization plan before initiating a large number of scans. The 
vulnerability prioritization plan must be aligned with the IT infrastructure and application plan 
to support the overall IT strategic plan; there should not be too much focus on legacy 
infrastructure and legacy applications that may be retired shortly.