Threat Taxonomy 
In order to effectively use threat intelligence and respond to attacks, it is important to have a clear 
understanding of the types of threats faced by the enterprise. This entails understanding the potential 
sources of threats as well as the types of threats that may occur. 
 
Threat Sources 
The nature of threats depends to a great extent on the type of source. Threat sources can be 
categorized as follows: 

 Adversarial: Individuals, groups, organizations, or states that seek to exploit the organization’s 
dependence on cyber resources (that is, information in electronic form, information and 
communications technologies, and the communications and information-handling capabilities 
provided by those technologies) 
 Accidental: Erroneous actions taken by individuals in the course of executing their everyday 
responsibilities 
 Structural: Failures of equipment, environmental controls, or software due to aging, resource 
depletion, or other circumstances that exceed expected operating parameters 
 Environmental: Natural disasters and failures of critical infrastructures on which the 
organization depends, but which are outside the control of the organization
 
Types of Threats 
A number of organizations have published taxonomies or catalogs of threat types. NIST provides a 
catalog consisting of 83 adversarial threat events and 18 non-adversarial threat events in SP 800-30, 
Guide for Conducting Risk Assessments. The adversarial threats are organized based on the cyber 
attack kill chain, discussed in Section 15.5. The non-adversarial threat events include user error, 
hardware failures, and environmental events. The European Union Agency for Network and Information Security 
(ENISA) Threat Taxonomy [ENIS16] lists 177 separate threats. The Web Application 
Security Consortium (WASC) Threat Classification [WASC10] lists 34 threat types. 

The Information Security Forum’s (ISF’s) Standard of Good Practice for Information Security (SGP) list 22 adversarial 
threats, 11 accidental threats, and 13 environmental threats; Table 15.2 shows the SGP’s lists of threats. 