NIST Awareness, Training, and Education (ATE) http://csrc.nist.gov/groups/SMA/ate/index.html 
The NIST Computer Security Division website’s awareness, training, education, and professional 
development pages contain a number of links to government, industry, and academic sites that offer 
or sell both awareness and training materials. 

Awareness Program Evaluation 
Just as in other areas of security, evaluation is needed to ensure that an awareness program is meeting 
objectives. ENISA has developed a set of metrics that are useful for awareness program evaluation 
[ENIS07], as shown in Table 5.1. 
 
Cybersecurity Essentials Program 
A cybersecurity essentials program serves two purposes. Its principal function is to target users of IT 
systems and applications, including company-supplied mobile devices and bring your own device 
(BYOD) policies, and develop sound security practices for these employees. Secondarily, it provides 
the foundation for subsequent specialized or role-based training by providing a universal baseline of 
key security terms and concepts. 
 
bring your own device (BYOD) 
An IT strategy in which employees, business partners, and others use their personally selected and 
purchased client devices to execute enterprise applications and access data and the corporate 
network. Typically, a BYOD policy spans smartphones and tablets, but the strategy may also be used 
for laptops, and it may include a subsidy. 
NIST SP 800-16 defines cybersecurity essential program as a program that refers to an individual’s 
familiarity with, and ability to apply, a core knowledge set that is needed to protect electronic 
information and systems. All individuals who use computer technology or its output products, 
regardless of their specific job responsibilities, must know these essentials and be able to apply them. 
The training at this level should be tailored to a specific organization’s IT environment, security 
policies, and risks.

Key topics that should be covered include: 
 Technical underpinnings of cybersecurity and its taxonomy, terminology, and challenges 
 Common information and computer system security vulnerabilities 
 Common cyberattack mechanisms, their consequences, and motivations for use 
 Different types of cryptographic algorithms 
 Intrusion, types of intruders, techniques, and motivation 
 Firewalls and other means of intrusion prevention 
 Vulnerabilities unique to virtual computing environments 
 Social engineering and its implications to cybersecurity 
 Fundamental security design principles and their role in limiting points of vulnerability 