DMZ Networks 
As shown in Figure 12.5, a firewall may be an internal or external firewall. An external firewall is placed at the edge 
of a local or enterprise network, just inside the boundary router that connects to the Internet or some wide area 
network (WAN). One or more internal firewalls protect the bulk of the enterprise network. Between these two types 
of firewalls are one or more networked devices in a region referred to as a DMZ (demilitarized zone) network. 
Systems that are externally accessible but need some protections are usually located on DMZ networks. 
Typically, the systems in the DMZ require or invite external connectivity, such as a corporate website, an email server, 
or a DNS (Domain Name System) server. 

An external firewall provides a measure of access control and protection for the DMZ systems 
consistent with their need for external connectivity. An external firewall also provides a basic level of 
protection for the remainder of the enterprise network. In this type of configuration, internal firewalls 
serve three purposes: 

 An internal firewall adds more stringent filtering capability, compared to the external firewall, 
in order to protect enterprise servers and workstations from external attack. 
 An internal firewall provides two-way protection with respect to the DMZ. First, the internal 
firewall protects the remainder of the network from attacks launched from DMZ systems. 
Such attacks might originate from worms, rootkits, bots, or other malware lodged in a DMZ 
system. Second, an internal firewall protects the DMZ systems from attack from the internal 
protected network. 
 Multiple internal firewalls are used to protect portions of the internal network from each 
other. For example, firewalls are configured so that internal servers are protected from 
internal workstations and vice versa. A common practice is to place the DMZ on a different 
network interface on the external firewall from that used to access the internal networks. 