Filtering rules are based on information contained in a network packet: 
 Source IP address: The IP address of the system that originated the IP packet (for 
example, 192.178.1.1)

 Destination IP address: The IP address of the system the IP 
packet is trying to reach (for example, 192.168.1.2) 
 Source and destination transport-level addresses: The transport-level (for example, 
Transmission Control Protocol [TCP] or User Datagram Protocol [UDP]) port number, 
which defines applications such as Simple Network Management Protocol (SNMP) 
or Telnet 
 IP protocol field: The transport protocol 
 Interface: For a firewall with three or more ports, which interface of the firewall the packet 
came from or which interface of the firewall the packet is destined for 
A packet filter is typically set up as a list of rules, based on matches to fields in the IP or TCP header. If 
there is a match to one of the rules, that rule is invoked to determine whether to forward or discard 
the packet. If there is no match to any rule, then a default action is taken. Two default policies are 
possible: 
 Default = discard: That which is not expressly permitted is prohibited. 
 Default = forward: That which is not expressly prohibited is permitted. 
The default = discard policy is the more conservative of the two. Initially, everything is blocked, and 
services are added on a case-by-case basis. This policy is more visible to users, who are more likely to 
see the firewall as a hindrance. However, this is the policy likely to be preferred by businesses and 
government organizations. Further, visibility to users diminishes as rules are created. The default = 
forward policy increases ease of use for end users but provides reduced security; the security 
administrator must, in essence, react to each new security threat as it becomes known. This policy is 
used by generally more open organizations, such as universities. 
Table 12.2 gives some examples of packet filtering rule sets. In each set, the rules are applied top to 
bottom. The * in a field is a wildcard designator that matches everything. Assume that the default = 
discard policy is in force with all these rule sets.