Application-Level Gateway 
An application-level gateway, also called an application proxy, acts as a relay of application-level traffic 
refer to Figure 12.4d). The user contacts the gateway by using a TCP/IP application, such as Telnet or 
FTP, and the gateway asks the user for the name of the remote host to be accessed. When the user 
responds and provides a valid user ID and authentication information, the gateway contacts the 
application on the remote host and relays TCP segments containing the application data between the 
two endpoints. If the gateway does not implement the proxy code for a specific application, the service 
is not supported and is not forwarded across the firewall. Further, the gateway can be configured to 
support only specific features of an application that the network administrator considers acceptable, 
while denying all other features. 

Application-level gateways are more secure than packet filters. Rather than try to deal with the 
numerous possible combinations that are allowed and forbidden at the TCP and IP levels, the 
application-level gateway only needs to scrutinize a few allowable applications. In addition, it is easy 
to log and audit all incoming traffic at the application level. 
A prime disadvantage of this type of gateway is the additional processing overhead on each 
connection. In effect, there are two spliced connections between the end users, and the gateway, 
which is at the splice point, must examine and forward all traffic in both directions. 
 
Circuit-Level Gateway 
A fourth type of firewall is the circuit-level gateway, or circuit-level proxy (refer to Figure 12.4e). This 
is either a standalone system or a specialized function performed by an application-level gateway for 
certain applications. As with an application gateway, a circuit-level gateway does not permit an end-
to-end TCP connection; rather, the gateway sets up two TCP connections, one between itself and a 
TCP user on an inner host and one between itself and a TCP user on an outside host. Once the two 
connections are established, the gateway typically relays TCP segments from one connection to the 
other without examining the contents. The security function consists of determining which 
connections are allowed. 

A typical use of circuit-level gateways is a situation in which the system administrator trusts the 
internal users. The gateway is configured to support application-level or proxy service on inbound 
connections and circuit-level functions for outbound connections. In this configuration, the gateway 
incurs the processing overhead of examining incoming application data for forbidden functions but 
does not incur that overhead on outgoing data.