Other cybersecurity threat terms frequently encountered include the following: 

 Remote access attacks: Attacks made across the Internet or a corporate network. 
 Denial-of-service (DoS) attack: An attack that prevents authorized access to resources or the 
delaying of time-critical operations. 
 Distributed denial-of-service (DDoS) attack: A DoS technique that uses numerous hosts to 
perform the attack. 
 DNS attacks: Attacks that encompass a variety of exploits that subvert the functioning of the 
Domain Name System (DNS), which provides a mapping between hostnames and IP addresses. 
 Hacker or cracker: An unauthorized user who attempts to or gains access to an information 
system. Sometimes a distinction is made between individuals who are essentially harmless 
and just curious (hacker) and individuals who break security on a system for malign purposes 
(cracker); in other case these two terms are considered equivalent. 
 Injection flaw: A vulnerability that is created from insecure coding techniques and results in 
improper input validation, which allows attackers to relay malicious code through a web 
application to the underlying system. 
 Code injection: Insertion of malicious code by exploiting an injection flaw. 
 Social engineering: A general term for attackers trying to trick people into revealing sensitive 
information or performing certain actions, such as downloading and executing files that 
appear to be benign but are actually malicious. 
 Phishing: A digital form of social engineering that uses authentic-looking—but bogus—emails 
to request information from users or direct them to a fake website that requests information. 
 Password attack: A method of accessing an obstructed device, using one of various methods, 
by capturing the user ID/password of a validated user. 
 Website exploit: An attack that inserts malicious code on a web server, either to attack the 
server itself or as a means of attacking source systems of users who access the website. 

These lists are not exhaustive but give you an idea of the scale of the challenge organizations face.