Containment, Eradication, and Recovery
The containment, eradication, and recovery phase is the central task of incident management. If
prevention measures failed and an incident occurs, the enterprise needs to stop the attack if it is
ongoing and recover from the attack. Actions taken during this phase can conceivably uncover another
incident, which feeds back to the detection and analysis phase, as shown in Figure 15.8.

Containment
Most incidents require some sort of containment. The objective is to prevent the spread of the effects
of the incident before they overwhelm resources or in some other way increase damage.
Strategies for dealing with various types of incidents must be planned well in advance. The strategy 
varies depending on the type of incident. For example, email-borne virus, DoS attacks, and intrusion 
coupled with escalation of privileges require different strategies. In some cases, a system may need 
to be isolated from the network until it is cleaned. User or system-level accounts may need to be 
disabled or changed. Active sessions may need to be terminated. 
 
The nature of the strategy and the magnitude of resources devoted to containment depends on 
criteria developed ahead of time. Examples of criteria include potential damage to and theft of 
resources, the need to preserve evidence, the effectiveness of the strategy, the time and resources 
needed to implement the strategy, and the duration of the solution.

Eradication 
 
Once the ongoing damage has been stopped, it may be necessary to perform some sort of eradication 
to eliminate any residual elements of the incident, such as malware and compromised user accounts. 
 
Recovery 
 
During recovery, IT personnel restore systems to normal operation to the extent possible and, if 
applicable, harden systems to prevent similar incidents. Possible actions include the following: 
 
 Restoring systems with clean versions from the latest backup 
 Rebuilding systems from scratch 
 Replacing compromised files with clean versions 
 Installing patches 
 Changing passwords 
 Tightening network perimeter security (for example, firewall rule sets) 
