Security Policy for IM 
IM is often poorly supervised, even though it introduces various risks to enterprise networks. Threats 
include IM-borne viruses, worms, spam over IM (SPIM), malware and phishing attacks, accidental or 
deliberate data leakage, inappropriate use, and regulatory noncompliance. A primary type of IM 
attack is to trick potential victims into installing a malicious program. IM-based attacks need some 
form of user interaction in order to launch, and attackers make use of social engineering to entice 
them to break security procedures or ignore common sense. These attacks usually exploit people’s 
innate curiosity or natural desire to help. They also try to appeal to vanity or authority and other 
triggers, such as greed, fear, anger, or moral duty. 
Thus, if an enterprise is going to enable employees to use IM, a corporate IM security policy is 
essential, and it needs to be backed up by user awareness training and an acceptable use policy. 
Two basic approaches enable an enterprise to maintain security over IM. Both approaches limit 
employees to the use of the enterprise-mandated IM facility and further limit the group of employees 
that can use IM. One approach is to host an enterprise IM server in-house. This enables the enterprise 
to enforce its IM policies through traffic analysis and reporting, message keyword searches, and 
message archiving. The enterprise can also implement end-to-end encryption and user authentication, 
as well as configure content and URL filters and allow the controlled use of many collaboration 
features, such as integrated live voice, video, and data. 

The enterprise may also opt for a cloud service, which means there is no need to install additional 
hardware or software. All IM messages sent to or from the enterprise network are routed through the 
cloud service, where they are scanned for viruses, worms, and malicious URLs. Messages are also 
matched against enterprise content control and acceptable IM use policies: Messages that are 
malicious or suspicious or that violate policies are automatically blocked. Also, all messages are logged 
and can be sent to the enterprise’s existing archiving solution to satisfy legal discovery requirements 
and other relevant regulations. This type of service makes enterprise-grade control of IM accessible 
to organizations of all sizes.