Security Audit Controls 
A useful guide to developing a security audit program is the family of audit controls defined in SP 800-
53, Security and Privacy Controls for Federal Information Systems and Organizations. The controls are 
designed to be flexible and customizable and implemented as part of an organizationwide process to 
manage risk. 
The audit and accountability family consists of 16 base controls. Some of the base controls include 
one or more control enhancements, which add functionality or specificity to a base control or increase 
the strength of a base control. The control enhancements are labeled with numbers in parentheses in 
the following list and table. In the following list some numbers associated with control enhancements 
are missing; these are withdrawn enhancements. The 16 base controls are: 

 Audit and accountability policy and procedures: Defines the governance strategy for a security 
audit policy. 
 Audit events: This control includes specifying the type of events to be audited. Additional 
guidance for this control includes the following: Specify the event types to be audited; Verify 
that the system can audit the selected event types; provide a rationale for why the auditable 
event types are deemed to be adequate to support after-the-fact investigations of security 
and privacy incidents; and coordinate the security audit function with other organizational 
entities requiring audit-related information. 

 (3) Periodically review and update the set of events to be audited. 
 Content of audit records: Deals with the content of audit records, including the following 
issues: 

o Specify the content of an audit record, such as what type of event occurred, when the 
event occurred, where the event occurred, the source of the event, the outcome of 
the event, and the identity of any individuals or subjects associated with the event. 
o Provide centralized management and configuration of the content to be captured. 
o Limit the personally identifiable information contained in audit records. 

 Audit storage capacity: Deals with allocating sufficient storage capacity to accommodate 
record retention requirements. 
o Periodically offload audit records onto a different system or media. 

 Response to audit processing failures: Provides guidance on alerting specific personnel about 
an audit processing failure and what additional actions to take. The following control 
enhancements are covered: 

o Provide warning when allocated storage is exhausted. 
o Provide an alert to designated personnel or locations when specified audit failure 
events occur. 
o Enforce configurable network communications traffic volume thresholds reflecting 
limits on auditing capacity. 
o Invoke a specified full system shutdown, partial system shutdown, or degraded 
operational mode with limited mission/business functionality available in the event 
of specified audit processing failures. 
