Acceptable Use Policy for Email 
Many organizations provide email accounts for their employees that enable email to be sent and 
received within the organization as well as via the Internet. For such employees, it is recommended 
that an acceptable use policy be defined and agreed to by the employees. (See Section 4.3 for a general 
discussion of acceptable use policies.) As an example, an email acceptable use policy may include the 
following: 

 Acceptable behavior: Use of email by employees is permitted and encouraged where such use 
supports the goals and objectives of the business. 
 Unacceptable behavior: The following behavior by an employee is considered unacceptable: 
 Use of company communications systems to set up personal businesses or send chain 
letters 
 Forwarding of company confidential messages to external locations 
 Distributing, disseminating, or storing images, text, or materials that are considered 
indecent, pornographic, obscene, or illegal 
 Distributing, disseminating, or storing images, text, or materials that are considered 
discriminatory, offensive or abusive, in that the context is a personal attack, sexist or 
racist, or considered harassment 
 Accessing copyrighted information in a way that violates the copyright 
 Breaking into the company’s or another organization’s system or unauthorized use of 
a password/mailbox 
 Broadcasting unsolicited personal views on social, political, religious, or other non-
business-related matters 
 Transmitting unsolicited commercial or advertising material 
 Undertaking deliberate activities that waste staff effort or networked resources 
 Introducing any form of computer virus or malware into the corporate network 
 Monitoring: The organization accepts that the use of email is a valuable business tool. 

However, misuse of this facility can have a negative impact on employee productivity and the 
reputation of the business. In addition, all of the company’s email resources are provided for 
business purposes. Therefore, the company maintains the right to examine any systems and 
inspect any data recorded in those systems. In order to ensure compliance with this policy, 
the company also reserves the right to use monitoring software in order to check up on the 
use and content of emails. Such monitoring is for legitimate purposes only and is undertaken 
in accordance with a procedure agreed with employees. 