VoIP Security Measures 
A number of security measures can be taken to protect VoIP traffic, including the following: 
 Encryption: It is a good practice to encrypt all voice connections. 
 VPNs: VPNs create segregated broadcast domains within the IP network infrastructure. By 
creating VPNs for voice, organizations provide an additional layer of protection that can 
potentially insulate voice communications from DoS attacks and other risks. 
 Port administration: SIP applications tend to open multiple ports on network devices, creating 
additional exposure to hackers. Therefore, IT staff need to implement firewalls and other 
security administration tools that discover and close unnecessarily opened ports—and 
rigorously authenticate devices attempting to use those ports. 
 Real-time antivirus scanner: An organization should scan the VoIP server continuously. 
 Application-layer firewall: This protects assets associated with the VoIP server, such as a 
database devoted to logging calls or even recording the calls. 
 Device authentication: Any user device that attempts to use the VoIP service should be 
authenticated. 
 User authentication: Individual users should be authenticated to limit specific users or groups 
of users to specific VoIP services. 

Telephony and Conferencing 
The security objective with respect to telephony and conferencing is to prevent and detect 
unauthorized use or misuse of telephony and conferencing facilities. This is achieved with a 
combination of physical and logical controls. The SGP recommends that there should be policies that 
cover the following: 

 Use of the organization’s telephones 
 Moves and changes of telephone users 
 Registration and authentication of users with access to voicemail 
 Protection of voicemail systems against unauthorized access (for example, by use of password 
protection) 
 The use and setup of web-based conferencing facilities (including teleconferencing, 
videoconferencing, and online web-based collaboration) 