Estimating Vulnerability
 
As with the estimation of threat event frequency, the estimation of vulnerability involves assigning 
relative values to two dimensions. In the case of vulnerability, the two dimensions are the threat 
capability and the control strength. FAIR defines threat capability as the capability of the threat 
community to act against an asset using a specific threat. This needs to be expressed relative to some 
baseline, and the technique used in FAIR is to define five levels of threat capability that describe the 
strength of a specific threat relative to the overall threat population (refer to Table 3.8). 
 
Estimating vulnerability involves looking at two factors:
 
 Skill: The knowledge and experience of the threat agent are critical factors in the severity of 
the threat action. Skill is reflected in the manner in which a threat agent is able to act, such as 
performing social engineering or bypassing logon or other access barriers. In the case of 
malware, the skill applied to constructing and propagating the malware determine the 
severity of the threat. 
 Resources: The other important factor is the resources, such as the time, financial resources, 
and materials that a threat agent can bring to bear. 
Thus, for a given threat to a given asset, the task of an analyst is to generate a reasonable estimate 
using the five threat capability levels shown in the FAIR Risk Assessement levels. For software-based threats, the CVSS 
discussed in Section 3.5 is a useful resource. 

The other dimension of vulnerability is control strength, also referred to in the FAIR documents as 
resistance strength; it is also called difficulty by FAIR practitioners. This dimension relates to the asset’s 
ability to resist compromise. The FAIR approach is to define five levels of resistance strength, based 
on the percentage of a threat population that an asset can successfully thwart, as shown in the FAIR Risk Assessement levels. 
The purpose of the controls is to increase the difficulty and complexity of causing a successful threat 
event. The more difficult that task is, the greater the capability the threat agent must have to 
overcome the controls currently in place. 