3.4 Acceptable Use Policy 
 
An acceptable use policy (AUP) is a type of security policy targeted at all employees who have access 
to one or more organization assets. It defines what behaviors are acceptable and what behaviors are 
not acceptable. The policy should be clear and concise, and it should be a condition of employment 
for each employee to sign a form indicating that he or she has read and understood the policy and 
agrees to abide by its conditions. 
The MessageLabs white paper Acceptable Use Policies—Why, What, and How [NAYL09] suggests the 
following process for developing an AUP: 
1. Conduct a risk assessment to identify areas of concern. As part of the risk assessment process, 
identify the elements that need to go into an AUP. 
2. Create the policy. The policy should be tailored to the specific risks identified, including liability 
costs. For example, the organization is exposed to liability if customer data is exposed. If the 
failure to protect the data is due to an employee’s action or inaction, and if this behavior 
violates the AUP, and if this policy is clear and enforced, then this may mitigate the liability of 
the organization. 
3. Distribute the AUP. This includes educating employees on why an AUP is necessary. 
4. Monitor compliance. A procedure is needed to monitor and report on AUP compliance. 
Enforce the policy. The AUP must be enforced consistently and fairly when it is breached. 
An example of a template for an AUP is provided by the SANS Institute. It has a similar structure to the 
security policy template shown in Section 4.1. The heart of the document is the policy section, which 
covers the following areas: 

SANS Institute AUP Template https://www.sans.org/security-resources/policies/general#acceptable-
use-policy 
 General use and ownership: Key points in this section include: 
Employees must ensure that proprietary information is protected. 
Access to sensitive information is allowed only to the extent authorized and necessary to 
fulfill duties. 
Employees must exercise good judgment regarding the reasonableness of personal use. 
 Security and proprietary information: Key points in this section include: 
Mobile devices must comply with the company’s BYOD policies. 
System- and user-level passwords must comply with the company’s password policy. 
Employees must use extreme caution when opening email attachments. 
 Unacceptable use—system and network activities: Key points in this section include: 
Unauthorized copying of copyrighted material 
 The prohibition against accessing data, a server, or an account for any purpose other than 
conducting company business, even with authorized access 
Revealing your account password to others or allowing use of your account by others 
Making statements about warranty unless it is a part of normal job duties 
Circumventing user authentication or security of any host, network, or account 
Providing information about, or lists of, company employees to outside parties 
 Unacceptable use—email and communication activities: Key points in this section include: 
Any form of harassment 

Any form of spamming 
Unauthorized use, or forging, of email header information 
 Unacceptable use—blogging and social media: Key points in this section include: 
Blogging is acceptable, provided that it is done in a professional and responsible manner, 
does not otherwise violate company policy, is not detrimental to company’s best interests, 
and does not interfere with an employee’s regular work duties. 
Any blogging that may harm or tarnish the image, reputation, and/or goodwill of company 
and/or any of its employees is prohibited. 
Employees may not attribute personal statements, opinions, or beliefs to the company.