Threat 
A potential for violation of security that exists when there is a circumstance, a capability, an action, or 
an event that could breach security and cause harm. That is, a threat is a possible danger that might 
exploit a vulnerability. 
 
Vulnerability 
A flaw or weakness in a system’s design, implementation, or operation and management that could 
be exploited to violate the system’s security policy. 

 User needs versus security implementation: Users want technology with the most modern 
and powerful features, that is convenient to use, that offers anonymity in certain 
circumstances, and that is secure. But there is an inherent conflict between greater ease of 
use and greater range of options on the one hand and robust security on the other. In general, 
the simpler the system, and the more its individual elements are isolated from one another, 
the easier it is to implement effective security. But over time, people demand more 

functionality, and the greater complexity that results makes systems less secure. Users or 
groups within an organization that feel inconvenienced by security mechanisms will be 
tempted to find ways around those mechanisms or demand relaxation of the security 
requirements. 

 Difficulty estimating costs and benefits: It is difficult to estimate the total cost of 
cybersecurity breaches and, therefore, the benefits of security policies and mechanisms. This 
complicates the need to achieve consensus on the allocation of resources to security. 
Because of these challenges, there is an ongoing effort to develop best practices, documents, and 
standards that provide guidance to managers charged with making resource allocation decisions as 
well as those charged with implementing an effective cybersecurity framework. The focus of this book 
is on the broad consensus that has been reached, as expressed in such documents. The volume and 
variety of these documents is very broad, and the goal of this book is to consolidate that material and 
make it accessible. 