Information Security Compliance Monitoring 
The objective of information security compliance monitoring is to ensure that information security 
controls are consistently prioritized and addressed according to information security obligations 
associated with legislation, regulations, contracts, industry standards, or organizational policies. 
 
COBIT 5 Guidelines 
COBIT 5 provides specific guidance on security monitoring and reporting for compliance with external 
requirements. 
For the process of ensuring compliance with external requirements, COBIT 5 defines the following 
steps: 
1. Identify external compliance requirements. On a continuous basis, identify and monitor for 
changes in local and international laws, regulations, and other external requirements that the 
organization must comply with from an IT perspective. 
2. Optimize response to external requirements. Review and adjust policies, principles, standards, 
procedures, and methodologies to ensure that legal, regulatory, and contractual 
requirements are addressed and communicated. Consider industry standards, codes of good 
practice, and good practice guidance for adoption and adaptation. 
3. Confirm external compliance. Confirm compliance of policies, principles, standards, 
procedures, and methodologies with legal, regulatory, and contractual requirements. 
4. Obtain assurance of external compliance. Obtain and report assurance of compliance and 
adherence with policies, principles, standards, procedures, and methodologies. Confirm that 
corrective actions to address compliance gaps are closed in a timely manner. 

Compliance Strategy 
The following steps constitute a general approach to information security compliance monitoring: 
1. Identify key stakeholders and/or partners across the organization who regularly deal with 
institutional compliance issues (for example, legal, risk management, privacy, audit). 
2. Identify key standards, regulations, contractual commitments, and other areas that address 
specific requirements for security and privacy. 
3. Perform a high-level gap analysis of each compliance requirement that is applicable to 
determine where progress needs to be made. 
4. Develop a prioritized action plan that will help organize remedial efforts. 
5. Develop a compliance policy, standard, roles and responsibilities, and/or procedures in 
collaboration with other key stakeholders.