The STRIDE Threat Model 

STRIDE is a threat classification system developed by Microsoft that is a useful way of categorizing 
attacks that arise from deliberate actions [HERN06]. It involves the following categories: 
 Spoofing identity: An example of identity spoofing is illegally accessing and then using another 
user’s authentication information, such as username and password. Security controls to 
counter such threats are in the area of authentication. 
 Tampering with data: Data tampering involves the malicious modification of data. Examples 
include unauthorized changes made to persistent data, such as that held in a database, and 
alteration of data as it flows between two computers over an open network, such as the 
Internet. Relevant security controls are in the area of integrity. 
 Repudiation: Repudiation threats are associated with users who deny performing an action 
without other parties having any way to prove otherwise (for example, a user performing an 
illegal operation in a system that lacks the ability to trace the prohibited operations). Relevant 
security controls are in the area of non-repudiation, which refers to the ability of a system to 
counter repudiation threats. For example, a user who purchases an item might have to sign 
for the item upon receipt. The vendor can then use the signed receipt as evidence that the 
user received the package. 
 Information disclosure: Information disclosure threats involve the exposure of information to 
individuals who are not supposed to have access to it (for example, the ability of users to read 
a file that they were not granted access to or the ability of an intruder to read data in transit 
between two computers). Relevant security controls are in the area of confidentiality. 
 Denial of service: Denial-of-service (DoS) attacks deny service to valid users—for example, by 
making a web server temporarily unavailable or unusable. Relevant security controls are in 
the area of availability. 
 Elevation of privilege: In this type of threat, an unprivileged user gains privileged access and 
thereby has sufficient access to compromise or destroy the entire system. Elevation of 
privilege threats include situations in which an attacker has effectively penetrated all system 
defenses and become part of the trusted system itself—a dangerous situation indeed. 
Relevant security controls are in the area of authorization. 