Discover Known Vulnerabilities 
The discover step involves monitoring sources of information about known vulnerabilities to 
hardware, software, and network equipment. Key sources of information include the following: 
CERT Coordination Center https://www.sei.cmu.edu/about/divisions/cert/index.cfm 

 National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) National Vulnerability Database (NVDB) 
and Common Vulnerability Scoring System (CVSS): This excellent source of information is 
discussed in some detail in Section 3.5. 

 Computer emergency response (or readiness) team (CERT): Such a team is a cooperative 
venture that collects information about system vulnerabilities and disseminates it to systems 
managers. Hackers also routinely read CERT reports. Thus, it is important for system 
administrators to quickly verify and apply software patches to discovered vulnerabilities. One 
of the most useful of these teams is the U.S. Computer Emergency Readiness Team, which is 
a partnership between the Department of Homeland Security and the public and private 
sectors, intended to coordinate responses to security threats from the Internet. Another 
excellent resource is the CERT Coordination Center, which grew from the computer 
emergency response team formed by the Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency. The 
CERT Coordination Center website provides good information on Internet security threats, 
vulnerabilities, and attack statistics. 

 Packet Storm: Packet Storm provides around-the-clock information and tools to help mitigate 
both personal data and fiscal loss on a global scale. As new information surfaces, Packet Storm 
releases everything immediately through its RSS (Rich Site Summary) feeds, Twitter, and 
Facebook. 
Packet Storm https://packetstormsecurity.com 
 SecurityFocus: This site maintains two important resources. BugTraq is a high-volume, full-
disclosure mailing list for detailed discussion and announcement of computer security 
vulnerabilities. The SecurityFocus Vulnerability Database provides security professionals with 
up-to-date information on vulnerabilities for all platforms and services. 
SecurityFocus https://www.securityfocus.com 
 Internet Storm Center (ISC): Maintained by the SANS Technology Institute, the ISC provides a 
free analysis and warning service to thousands of Internet users and organizations and is 
actively working with Internet service providers to fight back against the most malicious 
attackers. 
Internet Storm Center https://isc.sans.edu 