A Zoho Corp. white paper [BALA15] outlines the following important characteristics of automated network device configuration 
management tools: 

 Multivendor device support: A tool should support all device types from all popular vendors. 
 Discovery capability for device addition: A network can have thousands of network devices, 
and it is labor intensive to add each device manually. A tool should allow for discovering the 
devices in the network and automatically adding them, in addition to other device addition 
options. 
 Communication protocols: A tool should support a wide range of protocols for establishing 
communication with the device and transferring configuration files. 
 Secure storage: A tool should store configuration data in encrypted form, protected against 
intrusion. 
 Inventory: A tool should provide an informative inventory of the devices being managed. It 
should provide various details, such as serial numbers, interface details, chassis details, port 
configurations, IP addresses, and hardware properties of the devices. 
 Configuration operations and schedules: A tool should provide simple, intuitive options in the 
GUI to carry out various configuration operations, such as     retrieving, viewing, editing, and 
uploading configurations back to the device. It should include options to schedule the 
operations for automatic execution. 
 Configuration versioning: A tool should associate a version number with the configuration of 
each device, incremented with each change. 
 Baseline configuration: A tool should have a provision for labeling the trusted configuration 
version of each device as a baseline version to enable administrators to roll back a 
configuration to the baseline version in the event of a network outage. 
 Approval mechanism: The security policies of many enterprises require certain types of 
changes carried out by certain levels of users to be reserved for review and approval by top 
administrators prior to the deployment of the changes.