Log and Report 
When a vulnerability scan is completed, the organization should log the results so that personnel can 
verify the activity of the regular vulnerability scanning tools. 
An organization should rank discovered vulnerabilities, such as attaching a score to each vulnerability 
that reflects the following: 

 The skill required to exploit the vulnerability 
 The availability of the exploit to potential attackers 
 The privilege gained upon successful exploitation 
 The risk and impact of this vulnerability if exploitation is successful 

The resulting vulnerability scoring and metrics provide a valuable guide in the remediation process. 
The reporting process includes keeping track of the number and risk levels of vulnerabilities discovered 
over time and the effectiveness of remediation efforts in removing vulnerabilities. 
With respect to logging, The CIS Critical Security Controls for Effective Cyber Defense [CIS18] 
recommends that event logs be correlated with information from vulnerability scans. This has three 
objectives. First, verify that the activity of the regular vulnerability scanning tools is itself logged. 
Second, correlate attack detection events with prior vulnerability scanning results to determine 
whether the given exploit was used against a target known to be vulnerable. Third, monitor the scan 
logs to ensure that this activity is limited to the time frames of legitimate scans. This latter objective 
is important both because the enterprise wants to avoid conflict with other activities, such as routine 
maintenance, and because vulnerability scanning itself is a form of attack that must be detected. 

Remediate Vulnerabilities 
An organization should deploy automated patch management tools and software update tools for 
operating system and software/applications on all systems for which such tools are available and safe. 
It should apply patches to all systems—even systems that are properly air-gapped (that is, physically 
not accessible from the Internet). 
NIST SP 800-40, Guide to Enterprise Patch Management Technologies, provides a very detailed list of 
recommendations for patch management. This chapter provides a brief summary of those 
recommendations, which are grouped into three categories: performing patch management, patch 
management technologies, and patch management metrics. 