Remote Maintenance 

Remote maintenance refers to maintenance activities conducted by individuals who are external to 
an information system’s security perimeter. Remote maintenance is a convenience to the enterprise; 
in some environments it is a necessity, as an Internet of Things (IoT) deployment or an industrial 
control system. The principal security objective in this area is to prevent unauthorized access to critical 
systems and networks through the misuse of remote maintenance facilities. 
The U.S. Department of Homeland Security has compiled a list of requirements for remote 
maintenance of industrial control system [DHS11], but this list has general applicability to IT systems 
as well. The requirements for an organization are as follows: 

 Authorize, monitor, and control remotely executed maintenance and diagnostic activities. 
 Allow the use of remote maintenance and diagnostic tools only as consistent with 
organizational policy and documented in the security plan for the system. 
 Maintain records for remote maintenance and diagnostic activities. 
 Terminate all sessions and remote connections when remote maintenance is completed. 
 If password-based authentication is used to accomplish remote maintenance, change 
passwords following each remote maintenance session. 
 Audit remote maintenance and diagnostic sessions and ensure that designated organizational 
personnel review the maintenance records of the remote sessions. 
 Document the installation and use of remote maintenance and diagnostic links. 
 Require that remote maintenance or diagnostic services be performed from a system that 
implements a level of security at least as high as that implemented on the system being 
serviced or remove the component to be serviced from the system and, prior to remote 
maintenance or diagnostic services, sanitize the component (for example, clearing of set 
points, embedded network addresses and embedded security validation information). After 
the service is performed and the component is returned to the facility, the organization should 
check or reinstall the authorized firmware code as specified by the configuration management 
plan and reset all authorized embedded configuration settings. Do this before reconnecting 
the component to the system to remove potentially malicious software that was added via 
“new” firmware. 
 Require that remote maintenance sessions be protected by a strong authenticator tightly 
bound to the user. 
 Require that maintenance personnel notify the system administrator when remote 
maintenance is planned (that is, date/time). 
 Require that a designated organizational official with specific security/system knowledge 
approve the remote maintenance. 
 Implement cryptographic mechanisms to protect the integrity and confidentiality of remote 
maintenance and diagnostic communications. 
 Employ remote disconnect verification at the termination of remote maintenance and 
diagnostic sessions.