IPsec 
IPsec is a set of Internet standards that augment both versions of IP that are in current use (IPv4 and 
IPv6) with security features. The principal feature of IPsec is that it encrypts and/or authenticates all 
traffic at the IP level. Thus, all distributed applications—including remote logon, client/server, email, 
file transfer, web access, and so on—are secured. 

IPsec provides three main facilities: an authentication-only function referred to as Authentication 
Header (AH), a combined authentication/encryption function called Encapsulating Security Payload 
(ESP), and a key exchange function. For VPNs, both authentication and encryption are generally 
desired because it is important both to (1) ensure that unauthorized users do not penetrate the virtual 
private network and (2) ensure that eavesdroppers on the Internet cannot read messages sent over 
the VPN. Because both features are generally desirable, most implementations are likely to use ESP 
rather than AH. The key exchange function allows for manual exchange of keys as well as an 
automated scheme. 

Figure 12.6a shows a simplified packet format for an IPsec option known as tunnel mode, using 
ESP and a key exchange function. Figure 12.6b shows a typical IPsec usage scenario. An 
organization maintains local area networks (LANs) at dispersed locations. Insecure IP traffic 
is conducted on each LAN. For traffic offsite, through some sort of private or public WAN, 
IPsec protocols are used. These protocols operate in networking devices, such as a router 
or firewall, that connect each LAN to the outside world. The IPsec networking device typically 
encrypts and compresses all traffic going into the WAN and decrypts and decompresses traffic 
coming from the WAN; these operations are transparent to workstations and servers on the 
LAN. Secure transmission is also possible with individual users who dial in to the WAN. Such 
user workstations must implement the IPsec protocols to provide security. 
Tunnel mode provides protection to the entire IP packet. To achieve this, after the AH or ESP fields 
are added to the IP packet, the entire packet, including the security fields, is treated as the payload of 
new outer IP packet, with a new outer IP header. The entire original, inner, packet travels through a 
tunnel from one point of an IP network to another; no routers along the way are able to examine the 
inner IP header. Because the original packet is encapsulated, the new, larger packet can have totally 
different source and destination addresses, which increases the security. Tunnel mode is used when 
one or both ends of a security association (SA) are a security gateway, such as a firewall or router that 
implements IPsec. With tunnel mode, a number of hosts on networks behind firewalls can engage in 
secure communications without IPsec being implemented. The unprotected packets generated by 
such hosts are tunneled through external networks by tunnel mode SAs set up by the IPsec software 
in the firewall or secure router at the boundary of the local network. 
Here is an example of how tunnel mode IPsec operates. Host A on a network generates an IP packet 
with the destination address of host B on another network. This packet is routed from the originating 
host to a firewall or secure router at the boundary of host A’s network. The firewall filters all outgoing 
packets to determine the need for IPsec processing. If this packet from host A to host B requires IPsec, 
the firewall performs IPsec processing and encapsulates the packet with an outer IP header. The 
source IP address of this outer IP packet is this firewall, and the destination address can be a firewall 
that forms the boundary to B’s local network. This packet is now routed to B’s firewall, with 
intermediate routers examining only the outer IP header. At B’s firewall, the outer IP header is stripped 
off, and the inner packet is delivered to B. 