Job Descriptions 
The Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council [FFIE02] suggests that job descriptions be 
designed to increase accountability for security. Management can communicate general and specific 
security roles and responsibilities for all employees within their job descriptions. Management should 
expect all employees, officers, and contractors to comply with security and acceptable use policies 
and protect the institution’s assets, including information. The job descriptions for security personnel 
should describe the systems and processes they will protect and the control processes for which they 
are responsible. Management can take similar steps to ensure that contractors and consultants 
understand their security responsibilities as well. 
 
A key aspect of clarifying the security responsibilities attached to a particular job description is to 
specify the cybersecurity tasks associated with each type of job. Figure 5.1, based on a figure in the 
Cybersecurity Workforce Handbook [COCS14], lists tasks that must be performed by everyone in the 
enterprise, with additional tasks assigned to those with increased responsibility for data and systems. 
directory server: Manages user identity and authorization data in a directory format. 
Whitelist: A list of discrete entities, such as hosts or applications, that are known to be benign and are 
approved for use within an organization and/or information system. 
application whitelisting: A process that allows systems to run software only if it is included on the 
whitelist and prevents execution of all other software on the system.

During Employment 
ISO 27002 lists the following security objective with respect to current employees: to ensure that 
employees and contractors are aware of and fulfill their information security responsibilities. 
Specifically, employees and contractors should: 
 
 Be aware of information security threats and concerns 
 Be aware of their responsibilities and liabilities with regard to information security 
 Be equipped to support organizational security policy in the course of their normal work