But an analyst’s job doesn’t end there. All such events in an organization must be aggregated in an 
effort to find cause-and-effect correlations to reveal potential coordinated attack campaigns. When 
there are numerous security events to process in a short time, which is typical, the task becomes 
impossible. 
 
An increasingly popular approach to overcoming this problem is to use artificial intelligence (AI) and 
machine learning (ML) software: 
 
 Artificial intelligence: Technology that appears to emulate human performance, typically by 
learning, coming to its own conclusions, appearing to understand complex content, engaging 
in natural dialogs with people, enhancing human cognitive performance (also known as 
cognitive computing), or replacing people on execution of nonroutine tasks. AI implies the 
capability to learn and adapt through experience and to come up with solutions to problems 
without using rigid, predefined algorithms, which is the approach of non-AI software. 
 Machine learning: AI software that modifies its own algorithms in order to become more 
intelligent and improve future results. Unlike the static logic (“if this, do that”) in regular 
programs, machine learning continues to refine its logic so that the next operation is more 
effective than the preceding one. 
 
A number of vendors now offer ML and AI products to support cyber response efforts. However, this 
technology has not reached the level of maturity required to significantly improve protection. A recent 
report by Carbon Black [CARB17] aggregates insight from more than 400 interviews with leading 
cybersecurity researchers, summarized as follows: 
 
 Non-malware attacks are considered more threatening than malware- based attacks. 
 Non-malware attacks are increasingly leveraging native system tools, such as WMI and 
PowerShell, to conduct nefarious actions. 
 Confidence in the ability of legacy antivirus software to prevent non-malware attacks is low. 
 AI is considered by most security researchers to be in its nascent stages and not yet able to 
replace human decision making in cybersecurity. 
 Researchers say attackers can bypass ML-driven security solutions. 
 Cybersecurity talent, resourcing, and trust in executives continue to be top challenges 
plaguing many businesses. 