6.4 Security Event Management 
Security event management (SEM) is the process of identifying, gathering, monitoring, analyzing, and 
reporting security-related events. The objective of SEM is to extract from a large volume of security 
events those events that qualify as incidents. SEM takes data input from all 
devices/nodes and other similar applications, such as log management 
software. The collected events data is analyzed with security algorithms and statistical computations to trace out any 
vulnerability, threat, or risk, as shown in Figure 15.3. 

SEM Functions 
The first phase of event management is the collection of event data in the form of logs, as discussed 
in the preceding section. As event data are generated, they are generally stored in logs local to the 
devices that generate them. A number of steps need to be taken at this point: 
1. Normalization: For effective management, the log data needs to be in a common format to 
enable further processing. 
2. Filtering: This step includes assigning priorities to various types of events. On the basis of 
priority, large number of events can be set aside and not subject to further analysis, or they 
can be archived in case there is a need to review them later. 
3. Aggregation: The IT facility of a large enterprise generates millions of events per day. It is 
possible to aggregate them by categories into a more manageable amount of data. For 
example, if a particular type of traffic is blocked a number of times, it is sufficient to record as 
a single aggregate event the type of traffic and the number of times it was blocked over a 
particular time frame. 
These preliminary steps reduce the volume of data. The objective of the next steps is to analyze the 
data and generate alerts of security incidents. 

Analysis includes the following aspects: 
 Pattern matching: It is important to look for data patterns within the fields of stored event 
records. A collection of events with a given pattern can signal a security incident. 
 Scan detection: Often, an attack begins with a scan of IT resources by the attacker, such as 
port scans, vulnerability scans, or other types of pings. A substantial number of scans being 
found from a single source or a small number of sources can signal a security incident. 
 Threshold detection: A straightforward form of analysis is the detection of a threshold being 
crossed. For example, if the number of occurrences of a type of event exceeds a given 
threshold in a certain time period, that constitutes an incident. 
 Event correlation: Correlation consists of using multiple events from a number of sources to 
determine that an attack or suspicious activity occurred. For example, if a particular type of 
attack proceeds in multiple stages, the separate events that record those multiple activities 
need to be correlated in order to see the attack. Another aspect of correlation is to correlate 
particular events with known system vulnerabilities, which might result in a high-priority 
incident.