The Framework Core is intended not so much as a checklist of actions to be performed as a planning 
tool, enabling decision makers to more clearly appreciate what goes into effective risk management 
and to determine policies that emphasize the specific activities that are appropriate for the security 
goals of the organization. 
The tiers defined in the Cybersecurity Framework help an organization define the priority that is to be 
given to cybersecurity and the level of commitment that the organization intends to make. The tiers 
range from Partial (Tier 1) to Adaptive (Tier 4) and describe increasing degrees of rigor and 
sophistication in cybersecurity risk management practices and the extent to which cybersecurity risk 
management is informed by business needs and integrated into an organization’s overall risk 
management practices (see Table 1.9).

Once an organization has clarity on the degree of commitment to risk management (tiers) and an 
understanding of the actions that can be taken to match that commitment, security policies and plans 
can be put in place, as reflected in a Framework profile. In essence, a profile is a selection of categories 
and subcategories from the Framework Core. A current profile reflects the cybersecurity posture of 
the organization. Based on a risk assessment, an organization can define a target profile and then 
categories and subcategories from the Framework Core to reach the target. This definition of current 
and target profiles enables management to determine what has been done and needs to be 
maintained and what new cybersecurity measures need to be implemented to manage risk. The 
referenced guidelines, standards, and practices for each subcategory provide concrete descriptions of the work needed to meet the target profile. 
The NIST Cybersecurity Framework is an important resource for those involved in the planning, 
implementation, and evaluation of an organization’s cybersecurity capability. It is concise and uses 
clearly defined categories and subcategories. Approaching a document such as the ISF SGP or the ISO 
27002 can be intimidating and even overwhelming because of the large body of knowledge they 
contain. The Cybersecurity Framework is an excellent resource to help an organization more 
effectively use these more detailed documents. 