Risk Avoidance 
If the risk in a certain situation is considered too high and the costs of mitigating the risk down to an 
acceptable level exceed the benefits, the organization may choose to avoid the circumstance leading 
to the risk exposure. This could mean, for example, forgoing a business opportunity, relocating to 
avoid an environmental threat or legal liability, or banning the use of certain hardware or software. 
 
Risk Transfer 
Sharing or transferring risk is accomplished by allocating all or some of the risk mitigation responsibility 
or risk consequence to some other organization. This can take the form of obtaining insurance or 
subcontracting or partnering with another entity. 

Risk Assessment Best Practices 
 
The SGP breaks down the best practices in the information risk assessment category into 2 areas and 
12 topics and provides detailed checklists for each topic. The areas and topics are as follows: 
Information risk assessment framework: The objective of this area is to conduct regular information 
risk assessments for target environments (for example, critical business environments, processes, and 
applications, including supporting systems/networks) in a rigorous, consistent manner, using a 
systematic, structured methodology. 

Information risk assessment—management approach: Summarizes tasks to enable individuals who 
are responsible for target environments to identify key information risks, evaluate them, and 
determine the treatment required to keep those risks within acceptable limits. 
Information risk assessment—methodology: Summarizes a systematic and structured methodology to 
make information risk assessments effective, easy to conduct, and consistent throughout the 
organization and to produce a clear picture of key information risks. The document recommends the 
use of ISO 27005 and NIST SP 800-30 for detailed guidance. 

Information risk assessment—supporting material: Describes supporting material needed to ensure 
that each phase of a risk assessment is performed correctly, assessments provide practical results, and 
effective decisions about risk can be made. The document recommends using BIRT and developing a 
set of security controls based on ISO 27002 and the NIST Cybersecurity Framework. 
Information risk assessment process: The objective of this area is to adopt an information risk 
assessment methodology that includes important activities covering scoping, business impact 
assessment, threat profiling, vulnerability assessment, risk evaluation, and risk treatment.

