Education and Certification 

An education and certification program is targeted at those who have specific security responsibilities, 
as opposed to IT workers who have some other IT responsibility but must incorporate security 
concerns. 
Security education is normally outside the scope of most organization awareness and training 
programs. It more properly fits into the category of employee career development programs. Often, 
this type of education is provided by outside sources, such as college or university courses or 
specialized training programs. 
 
The following are examples of such programs: 
 Global Information Assurance Certification (GIAC) Security Essentials (GSEC): Designed for IT 
pros who want to demonstrate skills in IT system hands-on roles with respect to security tasks. 
Ideal candidates for this certification possess an understanding of information security beyond 
simple terminology and concepts. 
 International Information System Security Certification Consortium (ISC)2 Certified 
Information Systems Security Professional (CISSP): Ideal candidates for this certification are 
information assurance pros who know how to define the information system architecture, 
design, management, and controls to ensure the security of business environments. 
 (ISC)2 Systems Security Certified Practitioner (SSCP): Designed for those with proven technical 
skills and practical security knowledge in hands-on operational IT roles. The SSCP provides 
confirmation of a practitioner’s ability to implement, monitor, and administer IT infrastructure 
in accordance with information security policies and procedures that ensure data 
confidentiality, integrity, and availability. 
 Information Systems Audit and Control Association (ISACA) Certified Information Security 
Manager (CISM): For candidates who have an inclination toward organizational security and 
want to demonstrate the ability to create a relationship between an information security 
program and broader business goals and objectives. This certification ensures knowledge of 
information security and development and management of an information security program. 
 SANS computer security training and certification: The SANS Institute provides intensive 
immersion training designed to an organization’s staff master the practical steps necessary 
for defending systems and networks against the most dangerous threats—the ones being 
actively exploited.