One of the inputs to the categorize step consists of architecture considerations. These considerations 
include: 

 Information security architecture: Recall from Chapter 2, “Security Governance,” that this 
is defined as a description of the structure and behavior for an enterprise’s security 
processes, information security systems, personnel, and organizational sub-units, 
showing their alignment with the enterprise’s mission and strategic plans. 
 Mission and business processes: This refers to what the organization does, what the 
perceived mission or missions are, and what business processes are involved in fulfilling 
the mission. 
 Information system boundaries: These boundaries, also referred to as authorization 
boundaries, establish the scope of protection for organizational information systems (that 
is, what the organization agrees to protect under its direct management control or within 
the scope of its responsibilities) and include the people, processes, and information 
technologies that are part of the systems supporting the organization’s missions and 
business processes. 

The other major type of input to the categorize step consists of organizational inputs, including: 
 Laws, directives, and policy guidance 
 Strategic goals and objectives 
 Priorities and resource availability 
 Supply chain considerations 
Before proceeding, let’s distinguish some interrelated concepts that are essential to information 
classification: 
 Information type: A specific category of information (for example, privacy, medical, 
proprietary, financial, investigative, contractor sensitive, security management) defined 
by an organization or, in some instances, by a specific law, directive, policy, or regulation. 
 Security objective: The characteristic of security to be achieved, which typically consists 
of confidentiality, integrity, and availability. 
 Impact: An adverse change to the level of business objectives achieved. Also called impact 
level or impact value. Typically either three (low, medium, high) or five (very low, low, 
medium, high, very high) levels are used. 
 Security classification: The grouping of information into classes that reflect the value of 
the information and the level of protection required. Also called security categorization. 

Classification provides people who deal with information with a concise indication of how to handle 
and protect that information. Creating groups of information with similar protection needs and 
specifying information security procedures that apply to all the information in each group facilitates 
this. For example, an access control policy may dictate that access to a certain group of information is 
limited to personnel in certain defined roles. This approach reduces the need for case-by-case risk 
assessment and custom design of controls. 

The way classification is approached varies from one standards body to another. ISO 27001 indicates 
that information is to be classified in terms of legal requirements, value, criticality, and sensitivity to 
unauthorized disclosure or modification. ISO 27002, Code of Practice for Information Security 
Controls, provides further guidance, stating that results of classification should indicate value of 
assets, depending on their sensitivity and criticality to the organization (for example, in terms of 
confidentiality, integrity, and availability). 

FIPS 199, Standards for Security Categorization of Federal Information and Information Systems, 
provides a more precise definition of security categories, specifying the following generalized format 
for expressing a security category: 
SC information type = {(confidentiality, impact), (integrity, impact), (availability, impact)} 
Thus, in FIPS 199, the category for an information type consists of three values. An organization may 
instead use a more descriptive set of terms and may make a distinction between critical and sensitive 
information, as discussed in Chapter, “People Management.” 
NIST SP 800-60, Guide for Mapping Types of Information and Information Systems to Security 
Categories, defines the security categorization process as consisting of four steps, as shown in Figure 
6.2. The following sections examine these four steps.