Trustworthy Email Standards 
For both organizations and individuals, email is pervasive and vulnerable to a wide range of security 
threats. In general terms, email security threats are classified as follows: 

 Authenticity-related threats: Can result in unauthorized access to an enterprise’s email 
system. Another threat in this category is deception, in which case the purported author isn’t 
the actual author. 
 Integrity-related threats: Can result in unauthorized modification of email content. 
 Confidentiality-related threats: Can result in unauthorized disclosure of sensitive information. 
 Availability-related threats: Can prevent end users from being able to send or receive email. 
To assist in addressing these threat categories, the National Institute of Standards and Technology 
(NIST) issued SP 800-177, Trustworthy Email, which provides recommendations and guidelines for 
enhancing trust in email. The document is both a survey of available standardized protocols and a set 
of recommendations for using these protocols to counter security threats to email usage. The 
following protocols and standards are described in and recommended by SP 800-177: 
 STARTTLS: This SMTP security extension enables an SMTP client and server to negotiate the 
use of Transport Layer Security (TLS) to provide private, authenticated communication across 
the Internet. 
 S/MIME: S/MIME provides authentication, integrity, non-repudiation (via digital signatures) 
and confidentiality (via encryption) of the message body carried in SMTP messages. 
 DNS-based Authentication of Named Entities (DANE): DANE is designed to overcome 
problems in a certification authority (CA) system by providing an alternative channel for 
authenticating public keys based on DNSSEC (DNS Security Extensions), with the result that 
the same trust relationships used to certify IP addresses are used to certify servers operating 
on those addresses. 
 Sender Policy Framework (SPF): SPF enables a domain owner to specify the IP addresses of 
MTAs that are authorized to send mail on its behalf. SPF uses DNS to allow domain owners to 
create records that associate the domain name with a specific IP address range of authorized 
MTAs. It is a simple matter for receivers to check the SPF TXT record in DNS to confirm that 
the purported sender of a message is permitted to use that source address and reject mail 
that does not come from an authorized IP address. 
 DomainKeys Identified Mail (DKIM): DKIM enables an email actor (author or operator) to affix 
a domain name to the message reliably, using cryptographic techniques, so that filtering 
engines develop an accurate reputation for the domain. The MTA is able to sign selected 
headers and the body of a message. This validates the source domain of the mail and provides 
message body integrity.
 Domain-based Message Authentication, Reporting and Conformance (DMARC): DMARC 
publishes a requirement for the author domain name to be authenticated by DKIM and/or 
SPF, for that domain’s owner to request recipient handling of non-authenticated mail using 
that domain, and a reporting mechanism from recipients back to domain owners. DMARC lets 
senders know the proportionate effectiveness of their SPF and DKIM policies and signals to 
receivers what action should be taken in various individual and bulk attack scenarios. 
An examination of these standards is beyond the scope of this book. For a detailed discussion, see 
Stallings’s article “Comprehensive Internet Email Security” [STAL16]. A security manager must be 
aware of these standards and determine whether they should be required for email software products 
and services.

Another useful NIST document is SP 800-45, Guidelines on Electronic Mail Security, which 
complements SP 800-177. SP 800-45 recommends security practices for designing, implementing, and 
operating email systems on public and private networks. SP 800-177 focuses on the required Internet 
protocols and the use of digital signatures and encryption. 