Dealing with the Exploit Phase 
Countermeasures at the exploit stage include the following: 
 
 Host-based intrusion detection systems (HIDS): Once an exploit is inside the enterprise 
network and attacking hosts, a HIDS detects and alerts on such attempts. 
 Regular patching: Patching discovered vulnerabilities helps contain the damage. 
 Data restoration from backups: Once an exploit is discovered and removed, it may be 
necessary to restore a valid copy of data from a backup.

Dealing with the Installation Phase 
Tools that detect suspicious software or behavior, such as antivirus software and HIDS, are appropriate 
at the installation stage. These tools include specific actions such as the following: 
 
 An organization should remediate any malware infections as quickly as possible before they 
progress. Scan the rest of the enterprise network for indicators of compromise associated 
with this outbreak. 
 Sometimes a distributed denial-of-service (DDoS) attack is used to divert attention away from 
another, more serious, attack attempt. Increase monitoring, investigate all related activity, 
and work closely with the enterprise Internet service provider (ISP) or other service provider. 
distributed denial-of-service (DDoS) attack 
A DoS attack in which multiple systems are used to flood servers with traffic in an attempt to 
overwhelm available resources (transmission capacity, memory, processing power, and so 
on), making them unavailable to respond to legitimate users. 
 An organization should detect, monitor, and investigate unauthorized access attempts, giving 
priority to those that are mission critical and/or contain sensitive data. 
 An organization should identify the privileged user accounts for all domains, servers, apps, 
and critical devices. Monitoring should be enabled for all systems, and for all system events, 
and the monitoring system should feed the log monitoring infrastructure. 
 An organization should configure critical systems to record all privileged escalation events and 
set alarms for unauthorized privilege escalation attempts. 