System-Level Audit Trails 
System-level audit trails are generally used to monitor and optimize system performance but serve a 
security audit function as well. The system enforces certain aspects of security policy, such as access 
to the system itself. A system-level audit trail captures data such as login attempts (both successful 
and unsuccessful), devices used, and operating system functions performed. Other system-level 
functions may be of interest for auditing, such as system operation and network performance 
indicators. 
 
Application-Level Audit Trails 
Application-level audit trails are used to detect security violations in an application or to detect flaws 
in the application’s interaction with the system. For critical applications, or those that deal with 
sensitive data, an application-level audit trail provides the desired level of detail to assess security 
threats and impacts. For example, for an e-mail application, an audit trail records sender and receiver, 
message size, and types of attachments. An audit trail for a database interaction using Structured 
Query Language (SQL) queries records the user, type of transaction, and even individual tables, rows, 
columns, or data items accessed.

User-Level Audit Trails 

A user-level audit trail traces the activity of an individual user over time. It is used to hold a user 
accountable for his or her actions. Such audit trails are also useful as input to an analysis program that 
attempts to define normal versus anomalous behavior. 
A user-level audit trail records user interactions with the system, such as commands issued, 
identification and authentication attempts, and files and resources accessed. The audit trail also 
captures the user’s use of applications. 

Network-Level Audit Trails 

Network-level audit trails encompass a wide variety of network activity. Enterprises use such audit 
trails to evaluate system performance and perform load balancing. These audit trails can also include 
security-related data, such as that generated by firewalls, virtual private network managers, and IPsec 
traffic.