Figure 15.9 illustrates the typical phases in the digital forensics process, which are discussed in detail in the 
following sections. 
 
Prepare 
Preparation involves the planning and policy-making activities related to forensic investigation. A 
section of the security policy should deal with computer forensics. SP 800-86, Guide to Integrating 
Forensic Techniques into Incident Response, recommends the following considerations: 
 Ensure that policies contain clear statements addressing all major forensic considerations, 
such as contacting law enforcement, performing monitoring, and conducting regular reviews 
of forensic policies and procedures 
 Create and maintain procedures and guidelines for performing forensic tasks, based on the 
organization’s policies and all applicable laws and regulations  
 Ensure that policies and procedures support the reasonable and appropriate use of forensic 
tools 
 Ensure that IT professionals are prepared to participate in forensic activities 
 
In addition, an organization should establish guidelines on how to manage evidence. Such guidelines 
help ensure that evidence is preserved throughout the entire investigation process. 
The preparation phase also covers other activities, such as staff training, staff recruitment, tool 
validation, and quality assurance measures. 
 
A vital aspect of preparation is to ensure that the data sources needed for forensic analysis are created 
and securely stored. Key actions include the following: 
 
 Creating a file system baseline to help detect changes 
 Utilizing a central system log server 
 Maintaining network-level logging at key control points on the network 
 Synchronizing system clocks and log timestamps using central Network Time Protocol (NTP) 
servers for systems that generate logs 
 
Network Time Protocol (NTP): A protocol that assures accurate local timekeeping on computer 
systems, network devices, and other system components, with reference to radio and atomic clocks 
located on the Internet. This protocol is capable of synchronizing distributed clocks within milliseconds 
over long time periods. 
 
 Maintaining protocol activity tables, which are useful when responding to certain types of 
incidents 
 
The advantage of creating centralized logs is that they are easier to protect than local logs distributed 
throughout the network, which present a greater attack surface. 