The rule sets can be described as follows: 

 Rule set A: Inbound mail is allowed (port 25 is for Simple Mail Transfer Protocol [SMTP] 
incoming), but only to a gateway host. However, packets from a particular external host, 
SPIGOT, are blocked because that host has a history of sending massive files in email 
messages. 
 Rule set B: This rule set is intended to specify that any inside host can send mail to the outside. 
A TCP packet with destination port 25 is routed to the SMTP server on the destination 
machine. The problem with this rule is that the use of port 25 for SMTP receipt is only a 
default; an outside machine can be configured to have some other application linked to port 
25. As this rule is written, an attacker can gain access to internal machines by sending packets 
with TCP source port number 25. 
 Rule set C: This rule set achieves the intended result that was not achieved in C. The rules take 
advantage of a feature of TCP connections. Once a connection is set up, the ACK flag of a TCP 
segment is set to acknowledge segments sent from the other side. Thus, this rule set states 
that it allows IP packets where the source IP address is one of a list of designated internal 
hosts and the destination TCP port number is 25. It also allows incoming packets with source 
port number 25 that include the ACK flag in the TCP segment. Note that you explicitly 
designate source and destination systems to define these rules. 
 Rule set D: This rule set is one approach to handling File Transfer Protocol (FTP) connections. 
With FTP, two TCP connections are used: a control connection to set up the file transfer and 
a data connection for the actual file transfer. The data connection uses a different port 
number that is dynamically assigned for the transfer. Most servers, and hence most attack 
targets, use low-numbered ports; most outgoing calls tend to use a higher-numbered port, 
typically above 1023. Thus, this rule set allows: 
 Packets that originate internally 
 Reply packets to a connection initiated by an internal machine 
 Packets destined for a high-numbered port on an internal machine 

This scheme requires that the systems be configured so that only the appropriate port numbers are 
in use. 

 Rule set E: This is an explicit statement of the default policy. All rule sets include this rule 
implicitly as the last rule. 
Rule set D points out the difficulty in dealing with applications at the packet filtering level. Another 
way to deal with FTP and similar applications is either to use stateful packet filters or an application-
level gateway, both described subsequently in this section. 