Non-Malware Attacks 
 
An increasingly important category of cyber attacks is referred to as non-malware attacks. The chief 
characteristic of a non-malware attack is that it does not involve downloading any malicious files or 
code onto target devices. Rather, the attacker uses existing software on target machines, whitelisted 
applications, and authorized protocols to carry out malicious activities. Non-malware attacks can 
appear at several points along the cyber kill chain. Among the most common types of non-malware 
attacks are the following: 
 
 Remote logins 
 Windows Management Instrumentation (WMI)–based attacks: Windows Management 
Instrumentation (WMI )- A protocol to pull system metadata from Microsoft Windows devices, 
most notably operating system and software version data. 
 PowerShell-based attacks: PowerShell - A scripting language and related facilities that 
provides rich access to Window systems, including access to security settings. 
 Attacks leveraging Office macros 
 
When dealing with security events other than malware, the difficulty of automating the process of 
responding is significantly greater. When antivirus software or other incident monitoring software 
encounters malware, the malware can be automatically removed or isolated for further analysis. But 
an intrusion or another indicator of compromise may require both automated tools for recognition 
and human involvement for response. The article “Restoring Machine Learning’s Good Name in 
Cybersecurity” [CHES17] gives the following example: For a typical scenario in a medium-to-large 
company, the security analyst’s procedure for confronting a potential breach consists of the following: 
 
 Identify a security event. 
 Try to identify the attack intent based on the event name and description (which is rarely 
satisfactory, as the event name is usually too generic and the description too vague to 
accurately represent the intent). 
 Search for and collect relevant, potentially useful data from third-party threat centers, 
security blogs, intelligence reports, and similar sources. 
 Begin analyzing data. 
 Determine event intent and possible impact on the organization, based on associated threat 
information.