5.6 Electronic Communications 
 
Often the focus of enterprise security is protecting stored information and server facilities, as well as 
client/server communication from the wide variety of threats on the landscape. It is important not to 
overlook security related to electronic communications that may not involve server or database access 
but that is between individuals. This section looks at four types of electronic communications that 
need to be protected.

Email 

It is useful to have a basic grasp of the Internet mail architecture, as 
defined in RFC 5598, Internet Mail Architecture. At its most fundamental level, the Internet 
mail architecture consists of a user world, in the form of message user 
agents (MUAs), and a transfer world, in the form of the Message Handling System (MHS), which is 
composed of message transfer agents (MTAs). The MHS accepts a message from one user and 
delivers it to one or more other users, creating a virtual MUA-to-MUA exchange environment. This 
architecture involves three types of interoperability. One is directly between users: 
Messages must be formatted by the MUA on behalf of the message author so that the message are 
displayed to the message recipient by the destination MUA. There are also interoperability requirements 
between the MUA and the MHS—first when a message is posted from an MUA to the MHS and later when it is delivered from the MHS to the 
destination MUA. Interoperability is required among the MTA components along the transfer path 
through the MHS.

The key components include the following: 
 Message user agent (MUA): The MUA operates on behalf of user actors and user applications. 
It is their representative within the email service. Typically, this function is housed in the user’s 
computer and is referred to as a client email program or a local network email server. The 
author MUA formats a message and performs initial submission into the MHS via a MSA. The 
recipient MUA processes received mail for storage and/or display to the recipient user.
 Mail submission agent (MSA): The MSA accepts the message submitted by an MUA and 
enforces the policies of the hosting domain and the requirements of Internet standards. This 
function is either located together with the MUA or as a separate functional model. In the 
latter case, Simple Mail Transfer Protocol (SMTP) is used between the MUA and the MSA. 
 Message transfer agent (MTA): The MTA relays mail for one application-level hop. It is like a 
packet switch or an IP router in that its job is to make routing assessments and to move the 
message closer to the recipients. Relaying is performed by a sequence of MTAs until the 
message reaches a destination MDA. An MTA also adds trace information to the message 
header. SMTP is used between MTAs and between an MTA and an MSA or MDA. 
 Mail delivery agent (MDA): The MDA is responsible for transferring the message from the MHS 
to the MS, using SMTP. 
 Message store (MS): The MUA employs a long-term MS, located on a remote server or on the 
same machine as the MUA. Typically, an MS retrieves messages from a remote MS using POP 
(Post Office Protocol) or IMAP (Internet Message Access Protocol).