security operations center (SOC) 

A facility that tracks and integrates multiple security inputs, ascertains risk, determines the targets of 
an attack, contains the impact of an attack, and recommends and/or executes responses appropriate 
to any given attack. In some cases, an organization establishes a SOC for itself. In other cases, SOC 
services are outsourced to a private company that specializes in providing such services. 
 
The report also provides a detailed breakdown of how various attacks are carried out and provides 
examples of existing malware currently operating. It also looks at the specific state of security in the 
areas of network, database, and application security. The report is detailed enough to provide specific 
guidance to security planners and managers. 
 
Cisco Annual Cybersecurity Report 
The Cisco Annual Cybersecurity Report is yet another excellent source of threat information. The 
report is approximately organized along the lines of kill chain concepts. The report provides a detailed 
description of current attacker behavior patterns and also highlights coming vulnerabilities. 
 
Cisco Annual Cybersecurity Report 
http://b2me.cisco.com/en-us-annual-cybersecurity-report-2017 
 
Fortinet Threat Landscape Report 
The findings in the Fortinet Threat Landscape Report represent the collective intelligence of 
FortiGuard Labs, drawn from Fortinet’s vast array of network devices/sensors within production 
environments. This comprises billions of threat events and incidents observed in live production 
environments around the world, reported quarterly. Three measures are reported: 

 Volume: Measure of overall frequency or proportion; the total number or percentage of 
observations of a threat event. 
 Prevalence: Measure of spread or pervasiveness across groups; the percentage of reporting 
organizations that observed the threat event at least once. 
 Intensity: Measure of daily volume or frequency; the average number of observations of a 
threat event per organization per day. 