 Audit record retention: Provides guidance for developing a record retention policy. 
o Employ organization-defined measures to ensure that long-term audit records 
generated by the system can be retrieved. 
 Audit generation: Provides guidance for defining an audit record generation capability for the 
auditable event types. Enhancements include: 

o Compile audit records from organization-defined system components into a 
systemwide audit trail that is time-correlated to within the organization-defined level 
of tolerance for the relationship between time stamps of individual records in the 
audit trail. 
o Produce a systemwide (logical or physical) audit trail composed of audit records in a 
standardized format. 
o Extend or limit auditing, as necessary, to meet organizational requirements. Auditing 
that is limited to conserve system resources may be extended to address certain 
threat situations. 
o Audit query parameters within systems for data sets that contain personally 
identifiable information; this augments an organization’s ability to track and 
understand the access, usage, or sharing of personally identifiable information by 
authorized personnel. 

 Monitoring for information disclosure: Discusses monitoring open source information (for 
example, from social networking sites) for evidence of unauthorized disclosure of 
organizational information. Enhancements include: 
 
o Employ automated mechanisms to determine if organizational information has been 
disclosed in an unauthorized manner. 
o Review the open source information sites being monitored. 

 Session audit: Deals with providing and implementing the capability for authorized users to 
select a user session to capture/record or view/hear. Enhancements include: 
o Initiate session audits automatically at system startup. 
o Provide and implement the capability for authorized users to capture, record, and log 
content related to a user session. 
o Provide and implement the capability for authorized users to remotely view and hear 
content related to an established user session in real time. 
