Information processing refers to the use, storage, and manipulation of data that have been collected. 
Privacy issues relating to information processing arise from how data that have already been collected 
are handled and the ability to link the results back to the individuals to whom it pertains. Potential 
sources of privacy threats in this area include the following: 

 Aggregation: Aggregation of data about an individual in various databases allows anyone with 
access to the aggregated data to learn more about an individual than could be learned from 
separate, and separately protected, data sets. 
 Identification: It is possible, with sufficient data, to be able to aggregate data from various 
sources and use those data to identify persons who are not otherwise identified in the data 
sets. 
 Insecurity: Insecurity refers to the improper protection and handling of PII. Identity theft is 
one potential consequence of insecurity. Another possible consequence is the dissemination 
of false information about a person, through alteration of that person’s record. 
 Secondary use: With secondary use, information about a person obtained for one purpose is 
used or made available for other purposes without consent. 
 Exclusion: This is the failure to provide individuals with notice and input about their records. 
Chase Bank Online Privacy Policy https://www.chase.com/digital/resources/privacy-security/privacy/onlineprivacy-
policy 
Google Privacy Policy https://www.google.com/intl/en_us/policies/privacy/?fg=1 
The area of information dissemination encompasses the revelation of personal information or the 
threat of such revelation. Potential sources of privacy threat in this area include the following: 
 Disclosure: Disclosure refers to the release of true information about a person. The potential 
harm is damage to reputation or position in some form. For example, a website may have a 
privacy link at the bottom of the main page that goes to a page that states the organization’s 
privacy policy, which is focused on disclosure issues. Typical sections of a policy include what 
information is collected; use of information; disclosure of information; cookies, web beacons 
and other tracking technologies; and user choice. Links to two examples of policies are 
provided in the margin. 
 Breach of confidentiality: Solove’s A Taxonomy of Privacy [SOLO06] distinguishes between 
disclosure and breach of confidentiality, defining the latter as a disclosure that involves the 
violation of trust in a relationship. Thus, even if a disclosure itself is not harmful, the source of 
the disclosure is an entity that the person has a specific expectation of trust with. An example 
is the unauthorized release of medical information to a third party. 
 Exposure: Exposure involves the exposure to others of certain physical and emotional 
attributes about a person, such as nude photographs or a video of a surgical procedure. 
 Increased accessibility: With increased accessibility, information that is already publicly 
available is made easier to access. Increased accessibility does not create a new harm but does 
increase the likelihood and therefore the risk. 