Sources of Information 
Information on environmental threats is typically available from a variety of government and trade 
groups. Threats related to business resources are less easily documented but still generally can be 
predicted with reasonable accuracy. It is difficult to get reliable information on past events and to 
assess future trends for a variety of reasons, including the following: 
 
 Organizations are often reluctant to report security events in an effort to save corporate 
image, avoid liability costs, and, in the case of responsible management and security 
personnel, avoid career damage. 
 Some attacks may be carried out or at least attempted without being detected by the victim 
until much later, if ever. 
 Threats continue to evolve as adversaries adapt to new security controls and discover new 
techniques. 

Thus, keeping informed on threats is an ongoing and never-ending battle. The following discussion 
examines three important categories of threat information sources: in-house experience, security 
alert services, and global threat surveys. 

An important source of information on threats is the experience an organization has already had in 
identifying attempted and successful attacks on its assets. An organization can obtain this information 
through an effective security monitoring and improvement function, as discussed in Chapter, “Security 
Monitoring and Improvement.” However, this information is of more value for threat and incident 
management, described in Chapter, “Threat and Incident Management,” “than for risk assessment. 
That is, detected attacks should prompt immediate remedial action rather than be folded into long-
range actions. 

Security alert services are concerned with detecting threats as they develop to enable organizations 
to patch code, change practices, or otherwise react to prevent a threat from being realized. Again, this 
category of information is of more value for threat and incident management, and these sources are 
addressed in Chapter. 

Of great value for threat identification is the various global threat surveys that are readily available. 
The most important global threat survey are examined in this section. 