U.S. Privacy Laws and Regulations 

There is no single law or regulation covering privacy in the United States. Rather, a collection of federal 
privacy laws cover various aspects of privacy; many of them impose mandates on private organizations 
as well as government agencies and departments. These include: 
 The Privacy Act of 1974: Specifies the rules that a federal agency must follow to collect, use, 
transfer, and disclose an individual’s PII. 
 The Fair and Accurate Credit Transaction Act of 2003 (FACTA): Requires entities engaged in 
certain kinds of consumer financial transactions (predominantly credit transactions) to be 
aware of the warning signs of identity theft and to take steps to respond to suspected 
incidents of identity theft. 
 The Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 (HIPAA): Requires covered 
entities (typically medical and health insurance providers and their associates) to protect the 
security and privacy of health records. 
 The Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act of 1974 (FERPA): Designed to protect students 
and their families by ensuring the privacy of student educational records. 
 The Gramm–Leach–Bliley Act of 1999 (GLBA): Imposes privacy and information security 
provisions on financial institutions; designed to protect consumer financial data. 
 Federal Policy for the Protection of Human Subjects: Outlines the basic ethical principles 
(including privacy and confidentiality) in research involving human subjects. Published in 1991 
and codified in separate regulations by 15 federal departments and agencies. 
 The Children’s Online Privacy Protection Act (COPPA): Governs the online collection of 
personal information from children under age 13. 
 The Electronic Communications Privacy Act: Generally prohibits unauthorized and intentional 
interception of wire and electronic communications during the transmission phase and 
unauthorized access of electronically stored wire and electronic communications.