6.11 Threat and Incident Management Best Practices 
 
The SGP breaks down the best practices in the threat and incident management category into two 
areas and nine topics and provides detailed checklists for each topic. The areas and topics are as 
follows: 
 
 Cybersecurity resilience: The objective of this area is to manage threats and vulnerabilities 
associated with business applications, systems, and networks by scanning for technical 
vulnerabilities, maintaining up-to-date patch levels, performing continuous security event 
monitoring, acting on threat intelligence, and protecting information against targeted cyber 
attacks. 
 Technical vulnerability management: This topic deals with establishing a process for the 
identification and remediation of technical vulnerabilities in business applications, systems, 
equipment, and devices. The objective is to address technical vulnerabilities quickly and 
effectively, thus reducing the likelihood of their being exploited and preventing serious 
security incidents. 
 
o Security event logging: This topic deals with procedures for recording security-related 
events in logs, stored centrally, protected against unauthorized change, and analyzed 
on a regular basis. 

o Security event management: This topic deals with management guidelines for 
reviewing and analyzing security-related event logs. The objective is to detect known 
vulnerabilities, detect unusual or suspicious activity, and respond to events that need 
to be investigated in a timely manner. 
o Threat intelligence: The objective of this topic is to promote situational awareness 
about current and emerging threats, supporting information risk-related decisions 
and activities, based on analysis of a range of sources. The SGP discusses internal and 
external sources of threat information, details that should be included in threat 
information, analysis policy, and threat intelligence sharing. 
o Cyber attack protection: This topic provides checklists for protecting enterprise assets 
during all phases of a cyber attack. 

 Security incident management: The objective of this area is to develop a comprehensive and 
documented strategy for managing security incidents, which is supported by a process for the 
identification, response, recovery, and post-implementation review of information security 
incidents. 
o Security incident management framework: This topic lists considerations for defining 
an information security incident management framework, including relevant 
individuals, information, and tools required by the organization’s information security 
incident management process. 
o Security incident management process: This topic provides a checklist of actions 
related to detecting, analyzing, containing, recovering from, and learning from 
security incidents. 
o Emergency fixes: This topic provides a checklist of actions for applying emergency 
fixes, responding to emergencies in a timely and secure manner, and reducing 
disruption to the organization. 
o Forensic investigations: This topic provides a checklist of actions for dealing with 
information security incidents or other events (for example, e-discovery requests) 
that require forensic investigation. 