Estimating Secondary Loss Event Frequency 

To derive the secondary loss frequency, the analyst first needs to estimate the probability that a 
secondary stakeholder would be engaged, generating some form of secondary loss. The scale shown 
in the last column of Table 3.7 (Comparison of Quantitative and Qualitative Risk Assessment - Column - Qualitative) is used. 
This estimate is based on analyst judgment. To carry forward 
the analysis, it is necessary to convert this into a secondary loss frequency, using the matrix in Figure 

3.7b. In functional form: 
Secondary loss event frequency = f2 (Secondary loss probability, Primary loss event frequency) 
Note that this is the same matrix pattern used to evaluate the primary loss event frequency. Because 
a secondary loss is defined as one that may occur as a result of a primary loss, the secondary loss 
frequency must be less than or equal to the primary loss frequency, and this is reflected in the f2 
matrix. 
 
Business Impact Reference Table 
A useful tool for performing impact assessment is the Business Impact Reference Table (BIRT). The 
BIRT was developed by the ISF to enable all involved in the risk assessment process to have a common 
view of the risk elements. The BIRT provides consistent definitions to different types of impacts and 
severity levels. Typically, impact types include financial loss, reputation and image damage, 
stakeholder impact, and regulatory/statutory violations. Severity levels range from 1 (insignificant 
impact) through to 5 (catastrophic impact). The terminology in Table 3.7 (Comparison of Quantitative and Qualitative Risk Assessment)
indicates the type of common understanding of levels that is required. 

Table 3.11 (A (Example Business Impact Reference Table - part 1 of 2) and B (Example Business Impact Reference Table - part 2 of 2)) 
is an example that shows part of the BIRT for a refining and marketing company specializing in premium-quality, lower-emission traffic fuels. 
The company has operations in 14 countries worldwide and employs some 5,000 people. 