 Access constraints: A wireless access point transmits, at regular intervals, a signal containing 
is Service Set Identifier (SSID). This unique SSID identifies the access point and is used to 
announce that the access point is active. Because SSIDs are transmitted unencrypted, an 
unauthorized use could exploit the SSID to attempt an attack or intrusion. Countermeasures 
include the following: 
 Enable device security features. 
 Change default settings, such as default SSIDs set by the manufacturer. 
 Use static IP addresses for wireless access points. This avoids the use of the Dynamic 
Host Configuration Protocol (DHCP), which automatically provides an IP address to 
anyone attempting to gain access to your wireless network. again Static IP addresses 
make unauthorized penetration more difficult. 
 Track employees who have WLANs at home or at a remote site. Require that wireless 
networks be placed behind the main routed interface so the institution can shut them 
off if necessary. If WLANs are being used at home, require specific security 
configurations, including encryption and VPN tunneling. 
 Rogue access points: Rogue access points are APs that users install without coordinating with 
IT. Access controls, encryption, and authentication procedures enable IT to maintain control. 
 Traffic analysis and eavesdropping: To counter this threat, it is necessary to use a strong user 
authentication technique and to encrypt all traffic. 
 Insufficient network performance: Poor performance is due to an imbalance in the use of 
access points, insufficient capacity planning, or a denial of service attack. The following steps 
can mitigate this risk.

1. Continually monitor network performance and investigate any anomalies immediately. 
2. Segment the access point’s coverage areas to reduce the number of people using each access 
point. 
3. Apply a traffic-shaping solution to allow administrators to proactively manage traffic rather 
than react to irregularities.

 Hacker attacks: Hackers attempt to gain unauthorized access over wireless networks. 
Intrusion detection systems, anti-virus software, and firewalls are mitigation techniques. 
 Physical security deficiencies: This is in the domain of physical security. Subject Both the 
network devices and mobile devices to physical security policies and procedures. 
Employ VPNs as an additional security control. 
 
External Network Connections 
 
The principal security objective with respect to external network connections is to prevent 
unauthorized external users from gaining access to information systems and networks. The SGP 
includes the following guidelines: 

 Restrict external network traffic to only specified parts of information systems and networks 
and defined entry points. 
 Verify the sources of external connections. 
 Limit access to devices that meet minimum security configuration requirements. 
 Restrict access to only specific enterprise applications. 
 Use firewalls to enforce security policies. 
 Use a VPN for devices.