4.2 People Management 
 
The Information Security Forum’s (ISF’s) Standard of Good Practice for Information Security (SGP) uses 
the term people management to refer to all aspects of security related to the behavior of employees 
and others who have access to the organization’s information and systems. As many security experts 
have pointed out, superb technical solutions for ensuring security are bound to fail if employees do 
not understand their security responsibilities and are trained and motivated to fulfill those 
responsibilities. 

Broadly speaking, this topic encompasses two areas. The first has to do with what could be called the 
employment life cycle: the relationship of the individual to the organization prior to employment, 
during employment, and at and after employment termination. The SGP refers to this area as human 
resource security. The other area has to do with the security-related training of employees, both in 
terms of general security awareness, as well as in terms of the use of IT assets. The SGP refers to this 
area as security awareness/education. These topics are covered in the first two sections of this 
chapter, followed by a review of best practices. 

Human Resource Security  
Android Studio is an integrated development environment (IDE) provided by Google as their official 
tool for developing Android phone and tablet applications. This tool is continually being refined and 
has become quite powerful and reliable with recent versions. Especially useful is the enhanced ability 
to identify deprecated code, inefficient code, and code that doesn’t conform to Android design 
guidelines. 

Sound security practice dictates that information security requirements be embedded into each stage 
of the employment life cycle, specifying security-related actions required during the induction of each 
individual, the employee’s ongoing management, and termination of his or her employment. Human 
resource security encompasses all security aspects involving employees: 

 Hiring new employees 
 Training employees 
 Monitoring employee behavior 
 Handling employee departure/termination