Voice over IP (VoIP) Networks 
VoIP has become increasingly prevalent in organizations of all sizes. In essence, VoIP involves the 
transmission of speech across IP-based network. VoIP works by encoding voice information into a 
digital format, which is carried across IP networks in discrete packets. VoIP has two main advantages 
over traditional telephony: 

 A VoIP system is usually cheaper to operate than an equivalent telephone system with a PBX 
and conventional telephone network service. There are several reasons for this. Whereas 
traditional telephone networks allocate dedicated circuits for voice communications using 
circuit switching, VoIP uses packet switching, allowing the sharing of transmission capacity. 
Further, packetized voice transmission fits well in the framework of the TCP/IP protocol suite, 
enabling the use of application- and transport-level protocols to support communications. 
 VoIP readily integrates with other services, such as combining web access with telephone 
features through a single PC or terminal. 

VoIP Signaling 
Before voice is transferred using VoIP, a call must be placed. In a traditional phone network, the caller 
enters the digits of the called number. The telephone number is processed by the provider’s signaling 
system to ring the called number. With VoIP, the calling user (program or individual) supplies the 
phone number of a URI (universal resource indicator, a form of URL), which then triggers a set of 
protocol interactions and results in the placement of the call. 
The heart of the call placement process for VoIP is the Session Initiation Protocol (SIP), defined in RFC 
3261, which is an application-level control protocol for setting up, modifying, and terminating real-
time sessions between participants over an IP data network. SIP supports not only VoIP but also many 
multimedia applications. Associated with SIP is Session Description Protocol (SDP), defined in RFC 
4566. SIP is used to invite one or more participants to a session, and the SDP-encoded body of a SIP 
message contains information about what media encodings (for example, voice, video) the parties can 
and will use. Once this information is exchanged and acknowledged, all participants are aware of the 
participants’ IP addresses, available transmission capacity, and media type. Then data transmission 
begins, using an appropriate transport protocol. Typically, Real-Time Transport Protocol (RTP) is used. 
Throughout the session, participants can make changes to session parameters, such as new media 
types or new parties to the session, using SIP messages. 
 
An alternative to the use of SIP is ITU-T H.323. The H.323 protocol has been available for several years, 
and carriers made a significant investment to build out many large, H.323-based networks. SIP is 
growing in popularity due to its ability to easily combine voice and Internet-based services. SIP 
interoperability and coexistence with H.323 is very important to maximize the return on current 
investments and to support new deployments that might use SIP as an alternative packet telephony 
signaling protocol.