Fault Management 
 
To maintain proper operation of a complex network, make sure that systems as a whole, as well as 
each essential component individually, are in proper working order. When a fault occurs, it is 
important to do the following as rapidly as possible: 
 Determine exactly where the fault is 
 Isolate the rest of the network from the failure so it continues to function without interference 
 Reconfigure or modify the network in such a way as to minimize the impact of operation 
without the failed component or components 
 Repair or replace the failed components to restore the network to its initial state 

Central to the definition of fault management is the fundamental concept of a fault, as distinguished 
from an error. A fault is an abnormal condition that causes a device or system component to fail to 
perform in a required manner and that requires management attention (or action) for repair. A fault 
is usually indicated by failure to operate correctly or by excessive errors. For example, if a 
communications line is physically cut, no signals get through. Or a crimp in the cable can cause wild 
distortions so that there is a persistently high bit error rate. Certain errors (for example, a single bit 
error on a communication line) can occur occasionally and are not normally considered to be faults. It 
is usually possible to compensate for errors using the error control mechanisms of the various 
protocols. 

Users expect fast and reliable problem resolution. Most end users tolerate occasional outages. When 
these infrequent outages do occur, however, users generally expect to receive immediate notification 
and expect the problem be corrected almost immediately. Providing such a level of fault resolution 
requires very rapid and reliable fault detection and diagnostic management functions. The impact and 
duration of faults are also minimized by the use of redundant components and alternate 
communication routes, to give the network a degree of fault tolerance. An organization should make 
sure the fault management capability is redundant to increase network reliability. 
Users expect to be kept informed of the network status, including both scheduled and unscheduled 
disruptive maintenance. Users expect reassurance of correct network operation through mechanisms 
that use confidence tests or that analyze dumps, logs, alerts, or statistics. After correcting a fault and 
restoring a system to its full operational state, the fault management service must ensure that the 
problem is truly resolved and that no new problems are introduced. This requirement is called 
problem tracking and control.