The following sidebar provides an example of an information security report outline, from the 
Information Security Governance Framework [OHKI09]. This report structure is based on a study of 
private companies by the Japanese Ministry of Economics, Trade and Industry. It gives an overall 
picture of the enterprise’s information security governance. Section 5, in particular, involves providing 
a status update, which should be in sufficient detail for stakeholders to determine whether 
information security activities are being carried out as planned. 
 
 
Information Security Report 
 
1. Basic Information 
Includes the purpose of issue of the report, cautions relating to usage, target periods and 
responsible departments. 
2. Concept of Management Regarding Information Security 
Includes policy regarding information-security undertakings, target scope, ranking of 
stakeholders in the report and messages to stakeholders. 
3. Information Security Governance 
Information security management system (e.g., placement of responsibility, organizational 
structure and compliance), risks relating to information security and information security 
strategy. 
4. Information Security Measures Planning and Goals 
Includes action plan and target values. 
5. Results and Evaluation of Information Security Measures 
Includes results, evaluation, information security quality improvement activities, management 
of overseas bases, outsourcing, social contribution activities relating to information security 
and accident reports. 
6. Principle Focal Themes Relating to Information Security 
Includes internal controls and protection of personal information, undertakings to be 
particularly emphasized such as Business Continuity Plans, introduction to themes and newly 
devised points. 
7. Third-Party Approval, Accreditation, etc. (if Required) 
Includes ISMS compliance evaluation system, information security audits, privacy mark systems, 
number of persons with information security qualifications, classification, and ranking.