Distributed Network Management Systems 
In a traditional centralized network management scheme, one host in the configuration has the role 
of a network management station; there can be one or two other management stations in a backup 
role. The remainder of the devices on the network contain agent software and a local database to 
allow monitoring and control from the management station. As networks grow in 
size and traffic load, such a centralized system is unworkable. Too much burden is 
placed on the management station, and there is too much traffic, with reports from 
every single agent having to wend their way across the entire network to 
headquarters. In such circumstances, a decentralized, distributed approach works 
best (see the example in Figure 12.2). In a decentralized network management 
scheme, there can be multiple top-level management stations, which are referred 
to as management servers. Each such server can directly manage a portion of the 
total pool of agents. However, for many of 
the agents, the management server delegates responsibility to an intermediate 
manager. The intermediate manager plays the role of manager to monitor and control 
the agents under its responsibility. It also plays an agent role to provide information 
and accept control from a higher-level management server. This type of arrangement spreads the 
processing burden and reduces total network traffic. 

The element management layer provides an interface to the network devices and communications 
links in order to monitor and control them. This layer captures events and fault occurrences through 
a combination of direct polling and unsolicited notification by network elements. Management 
function modules provide interfaces to specific elements, allowing elements from different 
manufacturers to be incorporated under a single network management system. 
The network management layer (NML) provides a level of abstraction that does not depend on the 
details of specific elements. In terms of event management, this layer takes input from multiple 
elements (which in reality can be different applications), correlates the information received from the 
various sources (also referred to as root-cause analysis), and identifies the event that occurred. The 
NML provides a level of abstraction above the element management layer in that operations 
personnel are not “weeding” through potentially hundreds of unreachable or node down alerts but 
instead are focusing on the actual event, such as failure of an area-border router. Thus, this layer 
performs a filtering function, only providing a more aggregated view of the network through a 
common database across all five functions as well as a trouble ticketing facility. 
TThe service management layer is responsible for adding intelligence and automation to filtered events, 
event correlation, and communication between databases and incident management systems. The 
goal is to move traditional network management environments and the operations personnel from 
element management (managing individual alerts) to network management (managing network 
events) to service management (managing identified problems).