Security Monitoring and Reporting 

The objective of security monitoring and reporting is to provide each audience with a relevant, 
accurate, comprehensive, and coherent assessment of information security performance. 
COBIT 5 provides specific guidance on security monitoring and reporting based on the three processes 
defined earlier in this section: performance and conformance, system of internal control, and 
compliance with external requirements. This subsection deals with the first two processes; the last 
subsection of Section 18.2 discusses the final process. 
For the performance and conformance process, COBIT 5 defines the following steps: 

1. Establish a monitoring approach. Engage with stakeholders to establish and maintain a 
monitoring approach to define the objectives, scope, and method for measuring business 
solution and service delivery and contribution to enterprise objectives. Integrate this 
approach with the corporate performance management system. 
2. Set performance and conformance targets. Work with stakeholders to define, periodically 
review, update, and approve performance and conformance targets within the performance 
measurement system. 
3. Collect and process performance and conformance data. Collect and process timely and 
accurate data aligned with enterprise approaches. 
4. Analyze and report performance. Periodically review and report performance against targets, 
using a method that provides a succinct all-around view of IT performance and fits within the 
enterprise monitoring system. 
5. Ensure the implementation of corrective actions. Assist stakeholders in identifying, initiating, 
and tracking corrective actions to address anomalies. 

For the system of internal control process, COBIT 5 defines the following steps: 
1. Monitor internal controls. Continuously monitor, benchmark, and improve the IT control 
environment and controls. Continuously monitor, benchmark, and improve the IT control 
environment and control framework to meet organizational objectives. 
2. Review business process controls effectiveness. Review the operation of controls, including a 
review of monitoring and test evidence, to ensure that controls in business processes operate 
effectively. Include activities to maintain evidence of the effective operation of controls 
through mechanisms such as periodic testing of controls, continuous control monitoring, 
independent assessments, command and control centers, and network operations centers. 
3. Perform control self-assessments. Encourage management and process owners to take 
positive ownership of control improvement through a continuing program of self-assessment 
to evaluate the completeness and effectiveness of management’s control over processes, 
policies, and contracts. 
4. Identify and report control deficiencies. Identify control deficiencies and analyze and identify 
their underlying root causes. Escalate control deficiencies and report to stakeholders.