Exploit 
During the exploit phase, the delivered payload is triggered and takes action on the target system to 
exploit a vulnerability. This phase is concerned with gaining entry to the system in order to begin the 
actual attack. This phase can make use of a vulnerability known to the attacker, or the initially 
delivered payload can search for and discover vulnerabilities that enable continuing and expanding 
the attack. 
 
A wide variety of attacks are possible at this stage, encompassing all the threat categories discussed 
in this book (for example, exfiltrating data, modifying data, compromising availability). 

Installation 
During the installation phase, the attacker installs components that permit permanent control of the 
target system. The objective is to mount further attacks on the enterprise. At this stage, the attacker 
can also elevate user privileges of installed malware and install persistent payload. 
 
Command and Control 
The attacker creates a command-and-control channel in order to continue to operate the internal 
assets remotely. This step is relatively generic and relevant throughout the attack, not only when 
malware is installed. Among other actions at this stage, the adversary can take actions to inhibit the 
effectiveness of the intrusion detection systems or auditing capabilities within organizations. The 
adversary can adapt behavior in response to surveillance and organizational security measures. 
Actions 
 
The attacker performs the steps to achieve his or her goals inside the victim’s network—to obtain 
information, destroy information, or disrupt systems or networks. This can be an elaborate active 
attack process that takes months and thousands of small steps to achieve. 
Protection and Response Measures 
 
The following sections describe the steps an organization can take to reduce its vulnerability to each 
of the phases of the cyber attack kill chain described in the preceding section. 
Dealing with the Reconnaissance Phase 
 
A number of techniques can be used to detect reconnaissance attempts. For websites, web analytics 
can detect behavior that is more in line with an attacker than a benign user. For any type of traffic, 
scanning the source IP addresses for those with known bad reputations is fruitful. Multiple events 
occurring from the same address in a small time frame may indicate a reconnaissance effort. 
 
