Potential Security Log Sources 
A wide variety of sources of security events can be logged, including the following: 

 Server and workstation operating system logs 
Log: A record of the events occurring within an organization’s systems and networks. 
 Application logs (for example, web server, database server) 
 Security tool logs (for example, antivirus, change detection, intrusion detection/prevention 
system) 
 Outbound proxy logs and end-user application logs 
 Firewalls and other perimeter security devices for traffic between local user and remote 
database or server (referred to as north–south traffic)  
 Security devices between data center storage elements that communicated across a 
network (referred to as east–west traffic), which may involve virtual machines and 
software-based virtual security capabilities 
 
The abundance of log sources present a considerable challenge to enterprise security management. 
An organization should create a central repository to store logs in a standardized format. This may 
require conversion software and consolidation software to keep the amount of log information 
manageable.

What to Log 

In determining what types of events to log, an organization must take into consideration a number of 
factors, including relevant compliance obligations, institutional privacy policies, data storage costs, 
access control needs, and the ability to monitor and search large data sets in an appropriate time 
frame. The following are examples of potential security-related events that that could be logged: 
 Operating system logs: Successful user logon/logoff; failed user logon; user account change 
or deletion; service failure; password changes; service started or stopped; object access enied; 
object access changed 
 Network device logs: Traffic allowed through firewall, traffic blocked by firewall; bytes 
transferred; protocol usage; detected attack activity; user account changes; administrator 
access 
 Web servers: Excessive access attempts to nonexistent files; code (for example, SQL 
[Structured Query Language] or HTML [Hypertext Markup Language]) seen as part of the URL; 
attempted access to extensions not implemented on the server; web service 
stopped/started/failed messages; failed user authentication; invalid request; internal server 
error 

Protection of Log Data 
An organization needs to protect log data in terms of confidentiality, data integrity, availability, and 
authenticated usage. Logs can contain sensitive information, such as a user’s password or the content 
of emails. This presents security and privacy risks. In addition, if logs are altered or deleted, malicious 
activity might not be noticed or the identity of the malicious party might be concealed. 
Role-based access controls are used to partition the ability to read and modify log data based on 
business needs and position responsibilities.