Capital Planning 
Determining the benefit to an organization from IT security investments is a key element of IT 
security planning. Traditionally, capital planning has been applied to IT procurement overall and 
has been a separate function from security planning. As pointed out in NIST SP 800-65, 
Integrating IT Security into the Capital Planning and Investment Control Process, it is important to 
integrate capital planning methodology into the security planning process. An effective way of 
doing this—and one recommended by SP 800-65 is the Select/Control/Evaluate framework defined 
in the U.S. Government Accountability Office (GAO) publication Information Technology Investment 
Management: A Framework for Assessing and Improving Process Maturity [GAO04], as shown in 
Figure 4.2. 

The Select/Control/Evaluate framework defines a cyclical process consisting of three steps for deciding 
which projects to pursue or which investments to make: 
1. Select: Identify and analyze each project’s risks and returns before committing significant funds 
to any project. The organization then selects the IT projects that best support its mission needs. 
The organization repeats this process each time funds are allocated to projects. 
2. Control: Ensure that as projects develops and investment expenditures continue, the project 
continues to meet mission needs at the expected levels of cost and risk. If the project is not 
meeting expectations or if problems have arisen, steps must be quickly taken to address the 
deficiencies. If mission needs have changed, the organization needs to adjust its objectives for 
the project and appropriately modify expected project outcomes. 
3. Evaluate: Compare actual results and expected results after a project was fully implemented. 

This is done for the following reasons: 
 To assess the project’s impact on mission performance 
 To identify any necessary changes or modifications to the project 
 To revise the investment management process based on lessons learned 
Apply this process to every security-related investment in the organization. The costs typically incurred 
or contemplated are usually in three categories: 
 Direct costs of providing IT security for the specific IT investment 
 Costs for products, procedures, and personnel that have an incidental or integral component 
and/or a quantifiable benefit for the specific IT investment 
 Allocated security control costs for networks that provide some or all necessary security 
controls for associated applications

Note that investment choices involve not only hardware and software but also procedures or processes within the 
organization. For example, risk assessment itself is a cost. How many employee-hours and at what levels should be devoted 
to this process? This includes effort to collect threat and vulnerability data from external sources, internal security incident 
review, and security-related reports from department heads, managers, and even individual employees. If the assessment is 
pursued to a great level of detail, the results may be well beyond the needs of the organization in making cost-effective 
decisions. Underinvestment may produce results that lack the breadth and depth necessary to reasonably protect assets. 
Similar considerations apply in other process-related costs, such as employee awareness efforts. 
 
Table 4.1 describes the three categories in detail. 