1.2 The Value of Standards and Best Practices Documents 
The development, implementation, and management of a cybersecurity system for an organization 
are extraordinarily complex and difficult. A wide variety of technical approaches are involved, 
including cryptography, network security protocols, operating system mechanisms, database security 
schemes, and malware identification. The areas of concern are broad, including stored data, data 
communications, human factors, physical asset and property security, and legal, regulatory, and 
contractual concerns. And there is an ongoing need to maintain high confidence in the cybersecurity 
capability in the face of evolving IT systems, relationships with outside parties, personnel turnover, 
changes to the physical plant, and the ever-evolving threat landscape. 
Effective cybersecurity is very difficult, and any attempt to develop an ad hoc, grow-your-own 
approach to cybersecurity is an invitation to failure. The good news is that a great deal of thought, 
experimentation, and implementation experience have already gone into the development of policies, 
procedures, and overall guidance for cybersecurity system management teams. A number of 
organizations, based on wide professional input, have developed best practices types of documents 
as well as standards for implementing and evaluating cybersecurity. 

On the standards side, the most prominent player is the National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST). 
NIST has a huge number of security publications, including nine Federal Information Processing Standards (FIPS) and well 100 
active Special Publications (SP) that provide guidance on virtually all aspects of cybersecurity. Other 
organization that have produced cybersecurity standards and guidelines include the ITU-T, 
International Organization for Standardization (ISO), and the Internet Society (ISOC). 
In addition, a number of professional and industry groups have produced best practices documents 
and guidelines. The most important such document is the Standard of Good Practice for Information 
Security, produced by the Information Security Forum (ISF). This 300-plus-page document provides a 
wide range of best practices representing the consensus of industry and government organizations.

Other respected organizations, including the Information Systems Audit and Control Association 
(ISACA) and the Payment Card Industry (PCI), have produced a number of similar documents. 
Table 1.1 lists the most prominent best practices and standards documents that are discussed in this 
book.  