Security Awareness and Education 
A critical element of an information security program is the security awareness and training program. It is the means for 
disseminating security information to all employees, including IT staff, IT security staff, and management, as well as IT users 
and other employees. A workforce that has a high level of security awareness and appropriate security training for each 
individual’s role is as important as, if not more important than, any other security countermeasure or control. 

Two key National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) 
publications, SP 800-16, A Role-Based Model for Federal Information Technology/Cybersecurity Training, and SP 800-
50, Building an Information Technology Security Awareness and Training Program, are valuable resources in this area, and 
this section draws on both. SP 800-50 works at a higher strategic level and discusses how to build and maintain an 
information security awareness and training program; SP 800-16 addresses a more tactical level and discusses the 
awareness–training–education continuum, role-based training, and course content considerations. 
Both publications define and describe a cybersecurity learning continuum that depicts a progression 
of learning across the spectrum of roles throughout the organization, consisting of four phases (see 
Figure 5.2).

The four phases are as follows: 

 Awareness: A set of activities that explains and promotes security, establishes accountability, 
and informs the workforce of security news. Participation in security awareness programs is 
required for all employees. 
 Cybersecurity essentials: Intended to develop secure practices in the use of IT resources. This 
level is needed for those employees, including contractor employees, who are involved in any 
way with IT systems. It provides the foundation for subsequent specialized or role-based 
training by providing a universal baseline of key security terms and concepts. 
 Role-based training: Intended to provide knowledge and skills specific to an individual’s roles 
and responsibilities relative to information systems. Training supports competency 
development and helps personnel understand and learn how to perform their security roles. 
 Education/certification: Integrates all of the security skills and competencies of the various 
functional specialties into a common body of knowledge and adds a multidisciplinary study of 
concepts, issues, and principles (technological and social).