Configuration Management 

 The process of controlling modifications to a system’s hardware, software, and 
documentation, which provides sufficient assurance that the system is protected against the 
introduction of improper modification before, during, and after system implementation. 
 Incident response: Incident response, which occurs after the detection of a security event, 
seeks to minimize the damage of the event and facilitate rapid recovery. The CISO should 
ensure that an adequate incident response system is in place and operating properly. Chapter 
, “Threat and Incident Management,” covers this topic. 
 Performance measures: The CISO should ensure that an organizationwide performance 
measures are defined and used. Performance measures are a key feedback mechanism for an 
effective information security program. Chapter,  “Security Monitoring and Improvement,” 
covers this topic. 
Another useful source of guidance on the information management security function is the ISF SGP, 
which recommends that this function encompass the following: 
 Consistent organizationwide use of security: The CISO (or equivalent) is responsible for 
developing, maintaining, and regularly reviewing an overall security strategy for the 
organization and the accompanying policy document. 
 Support function: The CISO should: 
Act as a clearinghouse for security advice, making experts available to business unit managers 
and project managers, as needed 
Promote security awareness throughout the organization

Develop standard terms and agreements in contracts to ensure that suppliers and other 
external relationships meet the security standards of the organization 
Evaluate the security implications of new business initiatives 
Oversee the risk assessment process 
Set standards for use of cryptographic algorithms and security protocols 
 
 Monitor function: The CISO should monitor trends and developments to be aware of how they 
may affect the organization’s security strategy and implementation, including in the area of 
business trends, new technical developments, security solutions, standards, legislation, and 
regulation. 
 Projects function: The CISO should be responsible for overseeing security-related projects. 
 External requirements function: The CISO should manage the implications of laws, 
regulations, and contracts.