The purpose of security management is to support the application of security policies by means of 
functions that include the following:

 The creation, deletion, and control of security services and mechanisms 
 The distribution of security-related information 
 The reporting of security-related events 

Network Management Systems 
A large network cannot be put together and managed by human effort alone. The complexity of such 
a system dictates the use of automated network management tools. The urgency of the need for such 
tools is increased, and the difficulty of supplying such tools is also increased, if the network includes 
equipment from multiple vendors. Moreover, the increasing decentralization of network services, as 
exemplified by the increasing importance of workstations and client/server computing, makes 
coherent and coordinated network management increasingly difficult. In such complex information 
systems, many significant network assets are dispersed far from network management personnel. 
 
Components of a Network Management System 
A network management system is a collection of tools for network monitoring and control that is 
integrated in the following senses: 
 A single operator interface with a powerful but user-friendly set of commands for performing 
most or all network management tasks 
 A minimal amount of separate equipment, as most of the hardware and software required for 
network management is incorporated into the existing user equipment 
A network management system consists of incremental hardware and software additions 
implemented among existing network components. The software used in accomplishing the network 
management tasks resides in the host computers and communications processors (for example, 
front-end processors, terminal cluster controllers, switches, routers). A network management 
system is designed to view the entire network as a unified architecture, with addresses and labels 
assigned to each point and the specific attributes of each element and link known to the system. 
The active elements of the network provide regular feedback of status information to the 
network control center. In this context, the term element refers to network devices and end 
systems attached to the network.