 Sanctions: Where it is believed that an employee failed to comply with this policy, he or she 
faces the company’s disciplinary procedure. An employee who has breached the policy faces 
a disciplinary penalty ranging from a verbal warning to dismissal. The actual penalty applied 
depends on factors such as the seriousness of the breach and the employee’s disciplinary 
record. 
 Agreement: All company employees, contractors, or temporary staff who are granted the right 
to use the company’s email services are required to sign this agreement, confirming their 
understanding and acceptance of the policy. 
 
Security Policy for Email 

In addition to an acceptable use policy, an organization needs a security policy for email that specifies 
how email is to be handled, transmitted, and stored. ISO 27002, Code of Practice for Information 
Security Controls, includes the following considerations for protecting email: 
 Protecting messages from unauthorized access, modification, or denial of service 
commensurate with the classification scheme adopted by the organization 
 Ensuring correct addressing and transportation of the message 
 Ensuring reliability and availability of the service 
 Considering legal factors, such as requirements for electronic signatures 
 Obtaining approval prior to using external public services such as instant messaging, social 
networking, or file sharing 
 Specifying stronger levels of authentication to control access from publicly accessible 
networks 

Instant Messaging 
IM is a communications service in which short messages appear in pop-up screens as soon as they are 
received, thereby commanding the recipient’s immediate attention. IM uses a shared software client 
between or among two or more people using personal computers, smartphones, or other devices. The 
communication is done over a network, often the Internet, and can include advanced modes with live 
voice or video. File transfers are also sometimes allowed but are limited in size. Most IM services offer 
presence information that indicates whether a user is online and available to send and receive 
for frequent access, as well as group-based chat services. Enterprise IM provides real-time message 
passing within private and public networks. 
Although included in the online chat category of technologies, IM differs in that the communicating 
parties are selected from the buddy list, and users are typically alerted when someone on their list is 
online. In contrast, online chat allows communication in a multiuser environment among users who 
are usually anonymous. 

IM also differs from text messaging. The primary difference is that text messaging is a cellular phone 
service that is typically limited to 160 characters, whereas instant messaging is usually a computer 
session with a longer message size. After a text message is transmitted, the session is essentially ended 
even though the recipient can respond and keep the back-and-forth going all day. When an instant 
messaging session is started, it remains connected until the session is ended by one of the parties.