Information Classification 
It is useful to view information classification and handling in the overall context of risk management. 
National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) SP 800-37, Guide for Applying the Risk 
Management Framework to Federal Information Systems, defines a risk management framework that 
views the risk management process as consisting of six steps (see Figure 6.1): 

1. Categorize: An organization needs to identify the information to be transmitted, processed, 
or stored by the system and define applicable levels of information categorization based on 
an impact analysis. The handling and safeguarding of PII should be considered. The purpose 
of the categorization step is to guide and inform subsequent risk management processes and 
tasks by determining the adverse impact or consequences to the organization with respect to 
the compromise or loss of organizational assets—including the confidentiality, integrity, and 
availability of organizational systems and the information processed, stored, and transmitted 
by those systems. 
2. Select: An organization needs to select an initial set of baseline security controls for the system 
based on the security categorization as well as tailoring and supplementing the security 
controls are employed within the system and its environment of operation. 
4. Assess: An organization needs to assess the security controls using appropriate assessment 
procedures. It must also determine the extent to which the controls are implemented 
correctly, operating as intended, and producing the desired outcomes with respect to meeting 
the security requirements for the system. 
5. Authorize: Management officially authorizes a system to operate or continue to operate 
based on the results of the security control assessment. This decision is based on a 
determination of the risk to organizational operations and assets resulting from the operation 
of the system and the determination that this risk is acceptable.
6. Monitor: An organization needs to continuously monitor security controls to ensure that they 
are effective over time as changes occur in the system and the environment in which the 
system operates. This includes assessing control effectiveness, documenting changes to the 
system or its environment of operation, conducting security impact analyses of the 
associated changes, and reporting the security state of the system to designated organizational 
officials.