 Execute and manage: This process includes activities necessary to implement an information 
security awareness program. The initiative is executed and managed only when: 
 A needs assessment has been conducted 
 A strategy has been developed 
 An awareness program plan for implementing that strategy has been completed 
 Material has been developed 
 Evaluate and adjust: Formal evaluation and feedback mechanisms are critical components of 
any security awareness program. The feedback mechanism must be designed to address 
objectives initially established for the program. Once the baseline requirements are solidified, 
design and implement a feedback strategy. 
 
Awareness Program Communication Materials 
At the heart of an awareness training program are the communication materials and methods used to 
convey security awareness. There are two options for the awareness program designer: 
 Use in-house materials 
 Use externally obtained materials 
A well-designed program should have materials from both sources.

In-house materials that are effectively used include the following: 
 Brochures, leaflets, and fact sheets: These short documents are used to highlight key points 
such as password selection and use. 
 Security handbook: The security policy document is one candidate for a handbook. However, 
a document specifically geared toward awareness could be produced, covering all the security 
topics needed for all employees. 
 Regular email or newsletter: This communication channel is used to highlight changes either 
in organization security policy or outside threats, especially social engineering threats. In 
addition, this channel can be used to send reminders on specific topics. 
 Distance learning: The organization can set up a set of self-paced courses that are available 
online. 
 Workshop and training sessions: A block of time, such as an hour or an entire day, can be set 
aside, with mandatory attendance by certain categories of staff. 
 Formal classes: Classes can be held much like workshops, but perhaps offered off-site and 
lasting multiple days. They could be part of a professional development program. 
 Video: Available online or via disk, a video can cover one or more topics in depth and may be 
watched by individuals on their own time or on time allowed during work hours. 
 Website: An organization security website can be established that can be updated to reflect 
changes, present content for multiple audiences, and link to other information.