 Blackmail: Blackmail involves the threat of disclosure. Ransomware is an example of blackmail 
in the cybersecurity context. 
 Appropriation: Appropriation involves the use of a person’s identity or personality for the 
purpose of another. This is not identity theft, in that the offender is not claiming to be the 
victim. Rather, the offender makes use of the image or other identifying characteristic for 
some purpose, such as advertising, not authorized by the victim. 
 Distortion: Distortion is the manipulation of the way a person is perceived and judged by 
others; it involves the victim being inaccurately exposed to the public. Distortion is achieved 
by modifying records associated with an individual. 
 
The fourth area of privacy threats is referred to as invasions, and it involves impingements directly on 
the individual. Potential sources of privacy threat in this area include the following: 

 Intrusion: In general terms, intrusion involves incursions into a person’s life or personal space. 
In the context of cybersecurity, intrusion relates to penetrating a network or a computer 
system and achieving some degree of access privilege. Intrusion is a part of a variety of security 
threats but can also cause a privacy threat. For example, the actual intrusion, or threat of 
intrusion, into a personal computer can disrupt the activities or peace of mind of the personal 
computer user. 
 Decisional interference: This is a broad legal concept. In terms of the present discussion, it 
involves the individual’s interest in avoiding certain types of disclosure. To the extent that 
certain actions, such as registering for a government benefit, might generate data that could 
potentially be disclosed, the decision to perform those actions is deterred. 
 
The preceding list of potential threats is comprehensive, and it is unlikely that any organization’s set 
of privacy controls will attempt to address all of them. However, it is useful to have such a list in 
determining priorities for selecting privacy controls.
 
Privacy Principles and Policies 
A number of international organizations and national governments have introduced standards, laws, 
and regulations intended to protect individual privacy. The following sections examine one standard 
and two regional examples.