ISO 29100 

ISO 29100, Privacy Framework, lists the following 11 privacy principles that form the bases of this 
international standard: 

 Consent and choice: Enables the PII principal (the person to whom the PII relates) to exercise 
consent to use PII and provides an opt-out/opt-in choice. 
 Purpose legitimacy and specification: Defines the purposes for which PII can be used with clear 
specification to the PII principal. 
 Collection limitation: Limits the collection of PII to that which is within the bounds of 
applicable law and strictly necessary for the specified purpose(s). 
 Data minimization: Minimizes the processing of PII. 
 Use, retention, and disclosure limitation: Limits the use, retention, and disclosure (including 
transfer) of PII to that which is necessary in order to fulfill specific explicit and legitimate 
purposes. 
 Accuracy and quality: Ensures that the PII is accurate, obtained from a reliable and verified 
source, and provides periodic checks of information integrity. 
 Openness, transparency, and notice: Provides PII principals with clear and easily accessible 
information about the PII controller’s policies, procedures, and practices with respect to the 
processing of PII. 
 Individual participation and access: Gives PII principals the ability to access their PII, challenge 
its accuracy, and provide amendments or removals. 
 Accountability: Adopts concrete and practical measures for PII protection. 
 Information security: Protects PII under its authority with appropriate controls at operational, 
functional, and strategic levels to ensure the integrity, confidentiality, and availability of the 
PII and protects it against risks such as unauthorized access, destruction, use, modification, 
disclosure, or loss throughout the whole of its life cycle. 
 Privacy compliance: Verifies and demonstrates that the processing meets data protection and 
privacy safeguarding requirements by periodically conducting audits using internal auditors 
or trusted third-party auditors. 
These principles include information security considerations but are much broader than that.