Performing Patch Management 
There are a number of issues to consider related to performing patch management. One is the 
relationship between timing, prioritization, and testing. Ideally, every discovered vulnerability should 
be patched as soon as discovered. But, because resources are limited, enterprises need to prioritize 
patching. Further, there is a risk of installing a patch throughout an enterprise without testing it, so 
the resources involved in testing need to be taken into account. An organization should consider the 
impact of a patch on operational systems, such as rebooting or changing configurations. It should also 
take special care if it uses multiple automated means of patching, such as self-patching software, third-
party services, and network-based capability. An organization should anticipate and resolve conflicts 
and maintain a policy to verify that patches are effective on all relevant systems. 
 
Patch Management Technologies 
Table 15.1 shows three types of patch management techniques: agent-based scanning, agentless 
scanning, and passive network monitoring. 
 
Details of the three patch management techniques are as follows: 
 Agent-based scanning: Requires an agent to be running on each host to be patched, with one 
or more servers managing the patching process and coordinating with the agents. Each agent 
is responsible for determining what vulnerable software is installed on the host, 
communicating with the patch management servers, determining what new patches are 
available for the host, installing those patches, and executing any state changes needed to 
make the patches take effect. 
 Agentless scanning: Uses one or more servers that perform network scanning of each host to 
be patched and determine what patches each host needs. Generally, agentless scanning 
requires that servers have administrative privileges on each host so that they can return more 
accurate scanning results and so they have the ability to install patches and implement state 
changes on the hosts. 
 Passive network monitoring: Monitors local network traffic to identify applications (and, in 
some cases, operating systems) that are in need of patching. Unlike the other techniques, this 
technique identifies vulnerabilities on hosts that don’t permit direct administrator access to 
the operating system, such as some Internet of Things (IoT) devices and other appliances. 
However, the passive monitoring must be linked to system management software that has 
the ability to install patches.

Common features of patch management capabilities include identifying which patches are needed, 
bundling and sequencing patches for distribution, allowing administrators to select which patches may 
or may not be deployed, and installing patches and verifying installation. Many patch management 
technologies also allow patches to be stored centrally (within the organization) or downloaded as 
needed from external sources. 

A supplementary approach to traditional patch management is virtual patching. Virtual patching is 
implemented in a hardware device or software module that sits between incoming traffic and an 
application, a database, a server, or an endpoint. The virtual patch capability scans all traffic for 
exploits and blocks specific communications and resource usage, based on several factors. Virtual 
patching is an interim measure when it is difficult to immediately install needed patches. 