Security Governance Principles and Desired Outcomes 
Before getting into the details of security governance, an overview of principles and desired outcomes 
provides useful context. 

Principles 
X.1054 provides concepts and guidance on principles and processes for information security 
governance, by which organizations evaluate, direct, and monitor the management of information 
security. X.1054 lays out as a key objective of information security governance the alignment of 
information security objectives and strategy with overall business objectives and strategy. X.1054 lists 
six principles for achieving this objective: 

 Establish organizationwide information security. Information security, or cybersecurity, 
concerns should permeate the organization’s structure and functions. Management at all 
levels should ensure that information security is integrated with information technology (IT) 
and other activities. Top-level management should ensure that information security serves 
overall business objectives and should establish responsibility and accountability throughout 
the organization. 

information technology (IT): Applied computer systems, both hardware and 
software, and often including networking and telecommunications, usually in the context of 
a business or other enterprise. IT is often the name of the part of an enterprise that deals with 
all things electronic. 

 Adopt a risk-based approach. Security governance, including allocation of resources and 
budgets, should be based on the risk appetite of an organization, considering loss of 
competitive advantage, compliance and liability risks, operational disruptions, reputational 
harm, and financial loss. 

 Set the direction of investment decisions. Information security investments are intended to 
support organizational objectives. Security governance entails ensuring that information
security is integrated with existing organization processes for capital and operational 
expenditure, for legal and regulatory compliance, and for risk reporting.