NIST Security Documents 

NIST has produced a large number of FIPS publications and SPs that are enormously useful to security 
managers, designers, and implementers. Some of these documents are prescriptive standards, but 
many of them are tutorials or surveys and provide a continually updated source of educational
material on a broad range of security topics. This section mentions some of the most important ones. 
By far the most significant of these documents is SP 800-53, Security and Privacy Controls for Federal 
Information Systems and Organizations. This document lists management, operational, and technical 
safeguards or countermeasures prescribed for an information system to protect the confidentiality, 
integrity, and availability of the system and its information. Although intended for U.S. government 
systems, it is of equal applicability to IT systems in any organization. State-of-the-practice security 
controls and control enhancements have been integrated into the latest revision (2013) to address 
the evolving technology and threat space. Examples include issues particular to mobile and cloud 
computing; insider threats; applications security; supply chain risks; advanced persistent threats; and 
trustworthiness, assurance, and resilience of information systems. The revision also features eight 
new families of privacy controls that are based on the internationally accepted fair information 
practice principles. 
 
Countermeasure 
An action, a device, a procedure, or a technique that reduces a threat, a vulnerability, or an attack by 
eliminating or preventing it, by minimizing the harm it can cause, or by discovering and reporting it so 
that corrective action can be taken. 
 
Other documents of special interest include: 
FIPS 200, Minimum Security Requirements for Federal Information and Information Systems (2006): 
Specifies minimum security requirements in 17 security-related areas with regard to protecting the 
confidentiality, integrity, and availability of federal information systems and the information 
processed, stored, and transmitted by those systems.