SP 800-55, Performance Measurement Guide for Information Security, lists a number of candidate 
metrics that organizations can tailor, expand, or use as models for developing other metrics (see Table 
18.3). The recommended metrics focus on the SP 800-53 security controls. In essence, the metrics 
measure the effectiveness of the implementation of the security controls. 
There is one metric for each system control. For each metric, SP 800-55 provides detailed guidance in 
a number of categories. For example, for the maintenance metric, these are the category values: 

 Goal: Strategic Goal: Accelerate the development and use of an electronic information 
infrastructure. Information Security Goal: Perform periodic and timely maintenance on 
organizational information systems and provide effective controls on the tools, techniques, 
mechanisms, and personnel used to conduct information system maintenance. 
 Measure: Percentage (%) of system components that undergo maintenance in accordance 
with formal maintenance schedules. 
 Measure Type: Effectiveness/Efficiency 
 Formula: (Number of system components that undergo maintenance according to formal 
maintenance schedules/total number of system components) × 100. 
 Target: This should be a high percentage defined by the organization. 
 Implementation Evidence: (1) Does the system have a formal maintenance schedule? (2) How 
many components are contained within the system? (3) How many components underwent 
maintenance in accordance with the formal maintenance schedule? 
 Frequency: Collection Frequency: Organization-defined (example: quarterly); Reporting 
Frequency: Organization-defined (example: annually) 
 Responsible Parties: Information Owner: Organization-defined (example: System Owner); 
Information Collector: Organization-defined (for example, system administrator); Information 
Customer: Chief information officer (CIO), information system security officer (ISSO), senior 
agency information security officer (SAISO) (for example, chief information security officer 
[CISO]) 
 Data Source: Maintenance schedule, maintenance logs 
 Reporting Format: Pie chart comparing the percentage of system components receiving 
maintenance in accordance with the formal maintenance schedule versus the percentage of 
system components not receiving maintenance in accordance with the formal maintenance 
schedule over the specified period 