5.5 Security Considerations for Network Management 
 
This section addresses the network management topics defined in the Information Security Forum’s 
(ISF’s) Standard of Good Practice for Information Security (SGP). 

Network Device Configuration 
The principal security objective related to network device configuration is to ensure that the 
configuration of network devices is accurate and does not compromise the security of the network. 
The SGP recommends that policies and procedures for device configuration cover: 

 Security architecture principles 
 Standard security management practices 
 Device configuration 
 Restriction of access to network devices 
 Vulnerability and patch management 
 Changes to routing tables and settings in network devices 
 Regular review of network device configuration and setup 

Configuring network devices is a complex undertaking. As vendors build more features into their 
routers, switches, firewalls, and application delivery controllers, the command-line syntax required to 
configure those devices becomes increasingly loaded with options and syntactic choices. Web-based 
graphical user interfaces (GUIs) are often available as an alternative to a command-line interface (CLI), 
but they can be slow to navigate. Web GUIs also have a way of obfuscating functions by hiding them 
in unlikely pages, making accessing them require an annoying series of clicks. 
Analyses by numerous IT experts have time and again revealed that the most common cause of 
network outages is faulty configuration changes [BANK14]. Even minor errors in configuration changes 
to the devices in production carry the risk of causing network outage. Therefore, skilled network 
administrators spend a significant part of their time configuring devices. They may find it hard to 
concentrate on strategic network engineering and administration tasks. 
Most configuration changes are repetitive, labor-intensive tasks, such as changing passwords and 
access control lists. A number of tools and vendor offerings can automate repeatable and complex 
tasks related to device configuration, reducing the chance of human error.