5.3 Thread pools 
When working directly with the Thread class, you create a new thread each time, and the thread dies 
resources.  
A thread pool is created to reuse those threads, similar to the way a database connection pooling works. 
Instead of letting a thread die, you send it back to the pool where it can be reused whenever a request 
comes in. 
When you work with a thread pool from .NET, you queue a work item that is then picked up by an avail-
able thread from the pool. Listing 5-7 shows how this is done. 
 
Example 5-7  Queuing some work to the thread pool 
 
using System; 
using System.Threading; 
namespace Chapter1 
{ 
    public static class Program 
    { 
        public static void Main() 
        { 
            ThreadPool.QueueUserWorkItem((s) => 
            { 
                Console.WriteLine("Working on a thread from threadpool"); 
            }); 
            Console.ReadLine(); 
        } 
    } 
} 

Because the thread pool limits the available number of threads, you do get a lesser degree of parallelism 
than using the regular Thread class. But the thread pool also has many advantages.  
 
Take, for example, a web server that serves incoming requests. All those requests come in at an un-
known time and frequency. The thread pool ensures that each request gets added to the queue and that 
amount of requests. If you span threads manually, you can easily bring down your server if you get a lot 
of requests. Each request has unique characteristics in the work they need to do. What the thread pool 
does is map this work onto the threads available in the system. Of course, you can still get so many re-
quests that you run out of threads. Requests then start to queue up and this leads to your web server 
becoming unresponsive.  
 
The thread pool automatically manages the amount of threads it needs to keep around. When it is first 
created, it starts out empty. As a request comes in, it creates additional threads to handle those re-
quests. As long as it can finish an operation before a new one comes in, no new threads have to be cre-
ated. If new threads are no longer in use after some time, the thread pool can kill those threads so they 
no longer use any resources 