THREE|DELEGATES AND EVENTS 
 
3.1 Introduction 
In programming, you are often faced with situations where you need to execute a particular action, but you 
don't know in advance which method, or even which object, you'll want to call upon to execute that action. For 
example, a button might know that it must notify some object when it is pushed, but it might not know which 
object or objects need to be notified. Rather than wiring the button to a particular object, you will connect the 
button to a delegate and then resolve that delegate to a particular method when the program executes. 
In the early, dark, and primitive days of computing, a program would begin execution and then proceed through 
its steps until it completed. If the user was involved, the interaction was strictly controlled and limited to filling in 
fields. 

Today's Graphical User Interface (GUI) programming model requires a different approach, known as event-
driven programming. A modern program presents the user interface and waits for the user to take an ac-
tion. The user might take many different actions, such as choosing among menu selections, pushing buttons, up-
dating text fields, clicking icons, and so forth. Each action causes an event to be raised. Other events can be raised 
without direct user action, such as events that correspond to timer ticks of the internal clock, email being received, 
file-copy operations completing, etc. 

An event is the encapsulation of the idea that "something happened" to which the program must respond. 
Events and delegates are tightly coupled concepts because flexible event handling requires that the response to 
the event be dispatched to the appropriate event handler. An event handler is typically implemented in C# as a 
delegate. 
Delegates are also used as callbacks so that one class can say to another "do this work and when you're done, let 
me know. Delegates can also be used to specify methods that will only become known at runtime.

3.2 Delegates 
In C#, delegates are first-class objects, fully supported by the language. Technically, a delegate is a reference type 
used to encapsulate a method with a specific signature and return type. You can encapsulate any matching 
method in that delegate.  
A delegate is created with the delegate keyword, followed by a return type and the signature of the methods 
that can be delegated to it, as in the following: 
public delegate int WhichIsFirst(object obj1, object obj2); 
This declaration defines a delegate named  WhichIsFirst, which will encapsulate any method that takes 
two obj ects as parameters and returns an int. 
Once the delegate is defined, you can encapsulate a member method with that delegate by instantiating the del-
egate, i.e., passing in a method that matches the return type and signature.

