4.1.6 File Position  
 
The FileStream class maintains an internal file pointer that points to the location within the file where 
the next read or write operation will occur. In most cases, when a file is opened, it points to the begin-
ning of the file, but this pointer can be modified. This enables an application to read or write anywhere 
 
within the file, which in turn enables random access to a file and the capability to jump directly to a spe-
cific location in the file. This can save a lot of time when dealing with very large files because you can 
instantly move to the location you want. 
 
The method that implements this functionality is the Seek() method, which takes two parameters. The 
first parameter specifies how far to move the file pointer, in bytes. The second parameter specifies 
where to start counting from, in the form of a value from the SeekOrigin enumeration. The SeekOrigin 
enumeration contains three values: Begin, Current, and End. 
 
For example, the following line would move the file pointer to the eighth byte in the file, starting from 
the very first byte in the file: 
 
aFile.Seek(8, SeekOrigin.Begin); 
 
The following line would move the file pointer two bytes forward, starting from the current position. If 
this were executed directly after the previous line, then the file pointer would now point to the tenth 
byte in the file: 
 
aFile.Seek(2, SeekOrigin.Current); 
 
When you read from or write to a file, the file pointer changes as well. After you have read 10 bytes, the 
file pointer will point to the byte after the tenth byte read. You can also specify negative seek positions, 
which could be combined with the SeekOrigin.End 
enumeration value to seek near the end of the file. The following seeks to the fifth byte from the end of 
the file: 
 
aFile.Seek(-5, SeekOrigin.End); 
 
Files accessed in this manner are sometimes referred to as random access files because an application 
can access any position within the file. The Stream classes described later access files sequentially and 
do not allow you to manipulate the file pointer in this way.