FIVE| Threads and Synchronization 
 
5.1 Introduction 
 
Applications are becoming more and more complex as user expectations rise. To fully take advantage 
of multicore systems and stay responsive, you need to create applications that use multiple threads, 
often called parallelism.  
The .NET Framework and the C# language offer a lot of options that you can use to create multi-
threaded applications 
 
 
5.2  Understanding threads 
 
Imagine that your computer has only one central processing unit (CPU) that is capable of executing 
only one operation at a time. Now, imagine what would happen if the CPU has to work hard to exe-
cute a task that takes a long time. 
While this operation runs, all other operations would be paused. This means that the whole machine 
would freeze and appear unresponsive to the user. Things get even worse when that long-running op-
eration contains a bug so it never ends. Because the rest of the machine is unusable, the only thing 
you can do is restart the machine. 

To answer this problem, the concept of a thread is used. In current versions of Windows, each applica-
tion runs in its own process. A process isolates an application from other applications by giving it its own 
virtual memory ence each other. Each process runs in its own thread. A thread is something like a virtualized CPU. 

If an application crashes or hits an infinite Threads are typically created when you want a program 
to do two things at once Windows must manage all of the threads to ensure they can do their work. These management tasks do 
come with an overhead. Each thread is allowed by Windows to execute for a certain time period. After 
this period ends, the thread is paused and Windows switches to another thread. This is called   context 
switching. 

In practice, this means that Windows has to do some work to make it happen. The current thread is us-
ing a certain area of memory; it uses CPU registers and other state data, and Windows has to make sure 
that the whole context of the thread is saved and restored on each switch. 
But although there are certain performance hits, using threads does ensure that each process gets its 
time to execute without having to wait until all other operations finish. This improves the responsive-
ness of the system and gives the illusion that one CPU can execute multiple tasks at a time. This way you 
can create an application that uses parallelism, meaning that it can execute multiple threads on differ-
ent CPUs in parallel.
 
Almost any device that you buy today has a CPU with multiple cores, which is similar to having multiple 
CPUs. Some servers not only have multicore CPUs but they also have more than one CPU. To make use 
of all these cores, you need multiple threads. Windows ensures that those threads are distributed over 
your available cores. This way you can perform multiple tasks at once and improve scalability. 
Because of the associated overhead, you should carefully determine whether you need multithreading. 
But if you want to use threads for scalability or responsiveness, C# and .NET Framework offer you a lot 
of possibilities. 