NMF uses a random initialization, which might lead to different results depending on the random seed. 
In relatively simple cases such as the synthetic data with two com- ponents, where all the data can be 
explained perfectly, the randomness has little effect (though it might change the order or scale of the 
components). In more complex sit- uations, there might be more drastic changes. Applying NMF to face 
images Now, let’s apply NMF to the Labeled Faces in the Wild dataset we used earlier. The main 
parameter of NMF is how many components we want to extract. Usually this is lower than the number 
of input features (otherwise, the data could be explained by making each pixel a separate component). 
First, let’s inspect how the number of components impacts how well the data can be reconstructed using 
NMF: 
 
The quality of the back-transformed data is similar to when using PCA, but slightly worse. This is expected, 
as PCA finds the optimum directions in terms of reconstruction. NMF is usually not used for its ability to 
reconstruct or encode data, but rather for finding interesting patterns within the data. As a first look into 
the data, let’s try extracting only a few components (say, 15). 

These components are all positive, and so resemble prototypes of faces much more so than the 
components shown for PCA. For example, one can clearly see that component 3 shows a face rotated 
somewhat to the right, while component 7 shows a face somewhat rotated to the left. Let’s look at the 
images for which these components are particularly strong: 

As expected, faces that have a high coefficient for component 3 are faces looking to the right, while faces 
with a high coefficient for component 7 are looking to the left. As mentioned earlier, extracting patterns 
like these works best for data with additive structure, including audio, gene expression, and text data. 
Let’s walk through one example on synthetic data to see what this might look like. Let’s say we are 
interested in a signal that is a combination of three different sources: 
  
Manifold Learning with t-SNE While PCA is often a good first approach for transforming your data so that 
you might be able to visualize it using a scatter plot, the nature of the method (applying a rotation and 
then dropping directions) limits its usefulness, as we saw with the scatter plot of the Labeled Faces in the 
Wild dataset. There is a class of algorithms for visuali- zation called manifold learning algorithms that 
allow for much more complex map- pings, and often provide better visualizations. A particularly useful 
one is the t-SNE algorithm. 