Imagine a hobbyist botanist who wants to identify the species of iris flowers she has found. She has 
recorded measurements for each iris, including the length and width of both the petals and the sepals, 
all in centimeters. Additionally, she has measurements for some irises that have already been identified 
by an expert botanist as belonging to the species setosa, versicolor, or virginica. For these, she is certain 
of the species. Let's assume these are the only species the botanist will encounter in the wild. Our 
objective is to develop a machine learning model that can learn from the known iris measurements so 
that it can predict the species of new irises. We aim to build a machine learning model that can predict 
the species of an iris based on new measurements. We can now begin building the machine learning 
model. We will use a k-nearest neighbors (KNN) classifier, which is simple to understand. The process of 
building this model mainly involves storing the training set. To predict the label for a new data point, the 
algorithm identifies the training point that is closest to the new one and assigns its label to the new point. 
The "k" in k-nearest neighbors means that, rather than just using the closest neighbor, we can take into 
account a set number of closest neighbors (for example, three or five). The prediction is then based on 
the majority class of these neighbors. We will discuss this in more detail, but for now, we will consider 
just one neighbor. In scikit-learn, machine learning models are implemented in classes known as 
Estimator classes. The K-nearest neighbors classification algorithm is provided by the 
KNeighborsClassifier class in the neighbors module. To use the model, we need to create an instance of 
this class and configure its parameters. The most crucial parameter for KNeighborsClassifier is the 
number of neighbors, which we will set to 1. 
The knn object encapsulates the algorithm that will be used to build the model from the training data, 
as well the algorithm to make predictions on new data points. It will also hold the information that the 
algorithm has extracted from the training data. In the case of KNeighborsClassifier, it will just store the 
training set. 
 
The fit method returns the KNN object itself and modifies it in place, providing a string representation of 
the classifier. This representation displays the parameters used to create the model. Most of these 
parameters are set to their default values, but it also includes n_neighbors=1, which is the value we 
specified. While scikit-learn models have many parameters, the majority are related to optimization or 
specialized use cases, so you don’t need to worry about the other parameters shown in the output. 
Printing a scikit-learn model can produce lengthy strings, but don’t be discouraged by this. We will go 
over all the key parameters. From here on, we won’t display the output of fit since it doesn’t provide any 
new information. 
Note that we made the measurements of this single flower into a row in a two-dimensional NumPy array, 
as scikit-learn always expects two-dimensional arrays for the data. 
