Even with a very robust clustering or a high silhouette score, we still cannot determine if the clustering 
has any semantic meaning or if it reflects an aspect of the data we care about. Returning to the face 
image example, we might want to identify groups of similar faces, such as distinguishing between men 
and women, young and old, or people with beards versus those without. Suppose we cluster the data 
into two groups, and all algorithms agree on which points should be grouped together. However, we still 
cannot be certain that the clusters correspond to the concepts we are interested in. The clusters could 
have been formed based on factors like side views versus front views, photos taken at night versus during 
the day, or pictures captured with different types of phones (iPhones versus Androids). The only way to 
determine whether the clustering aligns with our interests is through manual analysis of the clusters. 
Comparing algorithms on the faces dataset Let’s apply the k-means, DBSCAN, and agglomerative 
clustering algorithms to the Labeled Faces in the Wild dataset, and see if any of them find interesting 
structure. We will use the eigenface representation of the data, as produced by PCA(whiten=True), with 
100 components: 
 
We saw earlier that this is a more semantic representation of the face images than the raw pixels. It will 
also make computation faster. A good exercise would be for you to run the following experiments on the 
original data, without PCA, and see if you find similar clusters. 
Analyzing the faces dataset with DBSCAN. We will start by applying DBSCAN, which we just discussed: 
We see that all the returned labels are –1, so all of the data was labeled as “noise” by DBSCAN. There are 
two things we can change to help this: we can make eps higher, to expand the neighborhood of each 
point, and set min_samples lower, to consider smaller groups of points as clusters. Let’s try changing 
min_samples first: 
 
Even when considering groups of three points, everything is labeled as noise. So, we need to increase 
eps: 

Using a much larger eps of 15, we get only a single cluster and noise points. We can use this result to find 
out what the “noise” looks like compared to the rest of the data. To understand better what’s happening, 
let’s look at how many points are noise, and how many points are inside the cluster: 
 
Comparing these images to the random sample of face images, we can guess why they were labeled as 
noise: the fifth image in the first row shows a per- son drinking from a glass, there are images of people 
wearing hats, and in the last image there’s a hand in front of the person’s face. The other images contain 
odd angles or crops that are too close or too wide. This kind of analysis—trying to find “the odd one 
out”—is called outlier detection. If this was a real application, we might try to do a better job of cropping 
images, to get more homogeneous data. There is little we can do about people in photos sometimes 
wearing hats, drinking, or holding something in front of their faces, but it’s good to know that these are 
issues in the data that any algorithm we might apply needs to handle. If we want to find more interesting 
clusters than just one large one, we need to set eps smaller, somewhere between 15 and 0.5 (the default). 
Let’s have a look at what different values of eps result in: 