The first panel is an unscaled two-dimensional dataset, with the training set shown as circles and the test 
set shown as triangles. The second panel is the same data but scaled using the MinMaxScaler. Here, we 

called fit on the training set, and then called transform on the training and test sets. You can see that the 
dataset in the second panel looks identical to the first; only the ticks on the axes have changed. Now all 
the features are between 0 and 1. You can also see that the minimum and maximum feature values for 
the test data (the triangles) are not 0 and 1. The third panel shows what would happen if we scaled the 
training set and test set separately. In this case, the minimum and maximum feature values for both the 
training and the test set are 0 and 1. But now the dataset looks different. The test points moved 
incongruously to the training set, as they were scaled differently. We changed the arrangement of the 
data in an arbitrary way. Clearly this is not what we want to do. As another way to think about this, 
imagine your test set is a single point. There is no way to scale a single point correctly, to fulfill the 
minimum and maximum requirements of the MinMaxScaler. But the size of your test set should not 
change your processing. 
The Effect of Preprocessing on Supervised Learning Now let’s go back to the cancer dataset and see the 
effect of using the MinMaxScaler on learning the SVC (this is a different way of doing the same scaling 
we did in Chapter 2). First, let’s fit the SVC on the original data again for comparison: 
 
As we saw before, the effect of scaling the data is quite significant. Even though scaling the data doesn’t 
involve any complicated math, it is good practice to use the scaling mechanisms provided by scikit-learn 
instead of reimplementing them yourself, as it’s easy to make mistakes even in these simple 
computations. You can also easily replace one preprocessing algorithm with another by changing the 
class you use, as all of the preprocessing classes have the same interface, consisting of the fit and 
transform methods: 