Let’s do a side-by-side comparison of PCA, NMF, and k-means, showing the components extracted, as 
well as reconstructions of faces from the test set using 100 components. For k-means, the reconstruction 
is the closest cluster center found on the training set: 
 
An interesting aspect of vector quantization using k-means is that we can use many more clusters than 
input dimensions to encode our data. Let’s go back to the two_moons data. Using PCA or NMF, there is 
nothing much we can do to this data, as it lives in only two dimensions. Reducing it to one dimension 
with PCA or NMF would completely destroy the structure of the data. But we can find a more expressive 
representation with k-means, by using more cluster centers: 

We used 10 cluster centers, which means each point is now assigned a number between 0 and 9. We can 
see this as the data being represented using 10 components (that is, we have 10 new features), with all 
features being 0, apart from the one that represents the cluster center the point is assigned to. Using 
this 10-dimensional repre- sentation, it would now be possible to separate the two half-moon shapes 
using a lin- ear model, which would not have been possible using the original two features. It is also 
possible to get an even more expressive representation of the data by using the distances to each of the 
cluster centers as features. This can be accomplished using the transform method of kmeans: 
 
K-means is a widely used clustering algorithm, favored for its simplicity, ease of implementation, and fast 
execution. It scales well to large datasets, and scikit-learn offers an even more scalable version called 
MiniBatchKMeans, which is capable of handling very large datasets. However, one limitation of k-means 
 
is that it depends on a random initialization, meaning the results can vary depending on the random 
seed. To address this, scikit-learn runs the algorithm 10 times with different random initializations and 
selects the best outcome. Other drawbacks include the algorithm's restrictive assumptions about cluster 
shapes and the need to specify the number of clusters beforehand, which may not always be known in 
real-world scenarios. 
Agglomerative clustering encompasses a group of algorithms that follow similar principles: the algorithm 
begins by treating each data point as its own cluster, then iteratively merges the two most similar clusters 
until a predefined stopping condition is met. In scikit-learn, this stopping condition is set by the desired 
number of clusters, and clusters are merged until that number is reached. The similarity between clusters 
is measured using different linkage criteria, each defining how to evaluate the proximity between two 
clusters. 