Non-Negative Matrix Factorization (NMF) 

Non-negative matrix factorization is another unsupervised learning algorithm that aims to extract useful 
features. It works similarly to PCA and can also be used for dimensionality reduction. As in PCA, we are 
trying to write each data point as a weighted sum of some components. But whereas in PCA we wanted 
components that were orthogonal and that explained as much variance of the data as possible, in NMF, 
we want the components and the coefficients to be non-negative; that is, we want both the components 
and the coefficients to be greater than or equal to zero. Consequently, this method can only be applied 
to data where each feature is non-negative, as a non-negative sum of non-negative components cannot 
become negative. 

The process of decomposing data into a non-negative weighted sum is particularly helpful for data that 
is created as the addition (or overlay) of several independent sources, such as an audio track of multiple 
people speaking, or music with many instruments. In these situations, NMF can identify the original 
components that make up the combined data. Overall, NMF leads to more interpretable components 
than PCA, as negative components and coefficients can lead to hard-to-interpret cancellation effects. The 
eigenfaces, for example, contain both positive and negative parts, and as we mentioned in the 
description of PCA, the sign is arbitrary. Before we apply NMF to the face dataset, let’s briefly revisit the 
synthetic data. 

Applying NMF to synthetic data In contrast to when using PCA, we need to ensure that our data is positive 
for NMF to be able to operate on the data. This means where the data lies relative to the origin (0, 0) 
matters for NMF. Therefore, you can think of the non-negative components that are extracted as 
directions from (0, 0) toward the data. The following example shows the results of NMF on the two-
dimensional toy data: 
 
For NMF with two components, as shown on the left, it is clear that all points in the data can be written 
as a positive combination of the two components. If there are enough components to perfectly 
reconstruct the data (as many components as there are features), the algorithm will choose directions 
that point toward the extremes of the data. 
If we only use a single component, NMF creates a component that points toward the mean, as pointing 
there best explains the data. You can see that in contrast with PCA, reducing the number of components 
not only removes some directions, but creates an entirely different set of components! Components in 
NMF are also not ordered in any specific way, so there is no “first non-negative component”: all 
components play an equal part. 