Analyzing the faces dataset with agglomerative clustering. Now, let’s look at the results of agglomerative 
clustering: 
 
Agglomerative clustering also produces relatively equally sized clusters, with cluster sizes between 26 
and 623. These are more uneven than those produced by k-means, but much more even than the ones 
produced by DBSCAN. We can compute the ARI to measure whether the two partitions of the data given 
by agglomerative clustering and k-means are similar: 
 
An ARI of only 0.13 means that the two clusterings labels_agg and labels_km have little in common. This 
is not very surprising, given the fact that points further away from the cluster centers seem to have little 
in common for k-means. Next, we might want to plot the dendrogram. We’ll limit the depth of the tree 
in the plot, as branching down to the individual 2,063 data points would result in an unreadably dense 
plot: 

Creating 10 clusters, we cut across the tree at the very top, where there are 10 vertical lines. In the 
dendrogram for the toy data, you could see by the length of the branches that two or three clusters might 
capture the data appropriately. For the faces data, there doesn’t seem to be a very natural cutoff point. 
There are some branches that represent more distinct groups, but there doesn’t appear to be a particular 
number of clusters that is a good fit. This is not surprising, given the results of DBSCAN, which tried to 
cluster all points together. Let’s visualize the 10 clusters, as we did for k-means earlier. Note that there is 
no notion of cluster center in agglomerative clustering (though we could compute the mean), and we 
simply show the first couple of points in each cluster. We show the number of points in each cluster to 
the left of the first image: 

While some of the clusters seem to have a semantic theme, many of them are too large to be actually 
homogeneous. To get more homogeneous clusters, we can run the algorithm again, this time with 40 
clusters, and pick out some of the clusters that are particularly interesting: 