5.6.1 Failure cases of k-means 
Even if you know the “right” number of clusters for a given dataset, k-means might not always be able to 
recover them. Each cluster is defined solely by its center, which means that each cluster is a convex shape. 
As a result of this, k-means can only cap- ture relatively simple shapes. k-means also assumes that all 
clusters have the same “diameter” in some sense; it always draws the boundary between clusters to be 
exactly in the middle between the cluster centers. That can sometimes lead to surprising results: 

One might have expected the dense region in the lower left to be the first cluster, the dense region in the 
upper right to be the second, and the less dense region in the cen- ter to be the third. Instead, both 
cluster 0 and cluster 1 have some points that are far away from all the other points in these clusters that 
“reach” toward the center. k-means also assumes that all directions are equally important for each 
cluster. The following plot shows a two-dimensional dataset where there are three clearly separated 
parts in the data. However, these groups are stretched toward the diagonal. As k-means only considers 
the distance to the nearest cluster center, it can’t handle this kind of data: 
k-means also performs poorly if the clusters have more complex shapes:

Vector quantization, or seeing k-means as decomposition Even though k-means is a clustering algorithm, 
there are interesting parallels between k-means and the decomposition methods like PCA and NMF that 
we discussed ear- lier. You might remember that PCA tries to find directions of maximum variance in the 
data, while NMF tries to find additive components, which often correspond to “extremes” or “parts” of 
the data. Both methods tried to express the data points as a sum over some components. k-means, on 
the other hand, tries to rep- resent each data point using a cluster center. You can think of that as each 
point being represented using only a single component, which is given by the cluster center. This view of 
k-means as a decomposition method, where each point is represented using a single component, is called 
vector quantization. 