5.6 Clustering Evaluation Metrics 
Since clustering is unsupervised, traditional accuracy metrics do not apply. Instead, we use: 
✓ Silhouette Score – Measures how well clusters are separated. 
✓ Davies-Bouldin Index – Lower values indicate better clustering. 
✓ Elbow Method (for k-Means) – Determines the optimal number of clusters. 
 
Task: 
1 Load a real-world dataset (e.g., Mall Customer Segmentation dataset on Kaggle). 
2 Apply k-Means, Hierarchical Clustering, and DBSCAN. 
3 Compare the clusters using visualizations and silhouette scores. 
 
As we described earlier, clustering is the task of partitioning the dataset into groups, called clusters. The 
goal is to split up the data in such a way that points within a single cluster are very similar and points in 
different clusters are different. Similarly to classification algorithms, clustering algorithms assign (or 
predict) a number to each data point, indicating which cluster a particular point belongs to. 
k-Means Clustering k-means clustering is one of the simplest and most commonly used clustering 
algorithms. It tries to find cluster centers that are representative of certain regions of the data. The 
algorithm alternates between two steps: assigning each data point to the closest cluster center, and then 
setting each cluster center as the mean of the data points that are assigned to it. The algorithm is finished 
when the assignment of instances to clusters no longer changes. The following example illustrates the 
algorithm on a synthetic dataset: 

Cluster centers are shown as triangles, while data points are shown as circles. Colors indicate cluster 
membership. We specified that we are looking for three clusters, so the algorithm was initialized by 
declaring three data points randomly as cluster centers (see “Initialization”). Then the iterative algorithm 
starts. First, each data point is assigned to the cluster center it is closest to (see “Assign Points (1)”). Next, 
the cluster centers are updated to be the mean of the assigned points (see “Recompute Centers (1)”). 
Then the process is repeated two more times. After the third iteration, the assignment of points to cluster 
centers remained unchanged, so the algorithm stops. Given new data points, k-means will assign each to 
the closest cluster center. The next example shows the boundaries of the cluster centers: 

Applying k-means with scikit-learn is quite straightforward. Here, we apply it to the synthetic data that 
we used for the preceding plots. We instantiate the KMeans class, and set the number of clusters we are 
looking for. Then we call the fit method with the data: 
 
During the algorithm, each training data point in X is assigned a cluster label. You can find these labels in 
the kmeans.labels_ attribute: 
 
You can see that clustering is somewhat similar to classification, in that each item gets a label. However, 
there is no ground truth, and consequently the labels themselves have no a priori meaning. Let’s go back 
to the example of clustering face images that we discussed before. It might be that the cluster 3 found 
by the algorithm contains only faces of your friend Bela. You can only know that after you look at the 
pictures, though, and the number 3 is arbitrary. The only information the algorithm gives you is that all 
faces labeled as 3 are similar. For the clustering we just computed on the two-dimensional toy dataset, 
that means that we should not assign any significance to the fact that one group was labeled 0 and 
another one was labeled 1. Running the algorithm again might result in a differ- ent numbering of clusters 
because of the random nature of the initialization. Here is a plot of this data again. The cluster centers 
are stored in the cluster_centers_ attribute, and we plot them as triangles: 
 
We can also use more or fewer cluster centers 