Comparing and Evaluating Clustering Algorithms 
One of the challenges in applying clustering algorithms is that it is very hard to assess how well an 
algorithm worked, and to compare outcomes between different algo- rithms. After talking about the 
algorithms behind k-means, agglomerative clustering, and DBSCAN, we will now compare them on some 
real-world datasets. 

Evaluating clustering with ground truth 

There are metrics that can be used to assess the outcome of a clustering algorithm relative to a ground 
truth clustering, the most important ones being the adjusted rand index (ARI) and normalized mutual 
information (NMI), which both provide a quanti- tative measure between 0 and 1. Here, we compare the 
k-means, agglomerative clustering, and DBSCAN algorithms using ARI. We also include what it looks like 
when we randomly assign points to two clusters for comparison: 
 
The adjusted rand index provides intuitive results, with a random cluster assignment having a score of 0 
and DBSCAN (which recovers the desired clustering perfectly) having a score of 1. 
A common mistake when evaluating clustering in this way is to use accuracy_score instead of 
adjusted_rand_score, normalized_mutual_info_score, or some other clustering metric. The problem in 
using accuracy is that it requires the assigned clus- ter labels to exactly match the ground truth. However, 
the cluster labels themselves are meaningless—the only thing that matters is which points are in the 
same cluster: 

Evaluating clustering without ground truth Although we have just shown one way to evaluate clustering 
algorithms, in practice, there is a big problem with using measures like ARI. When applying clustering 
algo- rithms, there is usually no ground truth to which to compare the results. If we knew the right 
clustering of the data, we could use this information to build a supervised model like a classifier. 
Therefore, using metrics like ARI and NMI usually only helps in developing algorithms, not in assessing 
success in an application. There are scoring metrics for clustering that don’t require ground truth, like 
the sil- houette coefficient. However, these often don’t work well in practice. The silhouette score 
computes the compactness of a cluster, where higher is better, with a perfect score of 1. While compact 
clusters are good, compactness doesn’t allow for complex shapes. Here is an example comparing the 
outcome of k-means, agglomerative clustering, and DBSCAN on the two-moons dataset using the 
silhouette score: 
 
As observed, k-means achieves the highest silhouette score, even though we may prefer the results 
produced by DBSCAN. A more effective approach for evaluating clusters is to use robustness-based 
clustering metrics. These metrics involve running an algorithm after adding noise to the data or using 
different parameter settings and comparing the results. The idea is that if many algorithm configurations 
and variations in the data produce the same outcome, the result is likely reliable. Unfortunately, this 
approach is not available in scikit-learn as of this writing. 