Dimensionality Reduction, Feature Extraction, and Manifold Learning 
Not to be confused with the much larger MNIST dataset. Manifold learning algorithms are mainly aimed 
at visualization, and so are rarely used to generate more than two new features. Some of them, including 
t-SNE, com- pute a new representation of the training data, but don’t allow transformations of new data. 
This means these algorithms cannot be applied to a test set: rather, they can only transform the data 
they were trained for. Manifold learning can be useful for explora- tory data analysis, but is rarely used if 
the final goal is supervised learning. 

The idea behind t-SNE is to find a two-dimensional representation 
of the data that preserves the distances between points as best as possible. t-SNE starts with a random 
two-dimensional representation for each data point, and then tries to make points that are close in the 
original feature space closer, and points that are far apart in the original feature space farther apart. t-
SNE puts more emphasis on points that are close by, rather than preserving distances between far-apart 
points. In other words, it tries to preserve the information indicating which points are neighbors to each 
other. We will apply the t-SNE manifold learning algorithm on a dataset of handwritten dig- its that is 
included in scikit-learn. 2 Each data point in this dataset is an 8×8 gray- scale image of a handwritten digit 
between 0 and 1. Figure below shows an example image for each class: 
 
Let’s apply t-SNE to the same dataset, and compare the results. As t-SNE does not support transforming 
new data, the TSNE class has no transform method. Instead, we can call the fit_transform method, which 
will build the model and immediately return the transformed data: 

The result of t-SNE is quite remarkable. All the classes are quite clearly separated. The ones and nines 
are somewhat split up, but most of the classes form a single dense group. Keep in mind that this method 
has no knowledge of the class labels: it is com- pletely unsupervised. Still, it can find a representation of 
the data in two dimensions that clearly separates the classes, based solely on how close points are in the 
original space. The t-SNE algorithm has some tuning parameters, though it often works well with the 
default settings. You can try playing with perplexity and early_exaggeration, but the effects are usually 
minor.