Hierarchical clustering and dendrograms 
Agglomerative clustering produces what is known as a hierarchical clustering. The clustering proceeds 
iteratively, and every point makes a journey from being a single point cluster to belonging to some final 
cluster. Each intermediate step provides a clustering of the data (with a different number of clusters). It 
is sometimes helpful to look at all possible clusterings jointly. The next example shows an overlay of all 
the possible clusterings shown before, providing some insight into how each cluster breaks up into 
smaller clusters: 
 
While this visualization provides a very detailed view of the hierarchical clustering, it relies on the two-
dimensional nature of the data and therefore cannot be used on datasets that have more than two 
features. There is, however, another tool to visualize hierarchical clustering, called a dendrogram, that 
can handle multidimensional datasets. 
Unfortunately, scikit-learn currently does not have the functionality to draw dendrograms. However, you 
can generate them easily using SciPy. The SciPy clustering algorithms have a slightly different interface to 
the scikit-learn clustering algorithms. SciPy provides a function that takes a data array X and computes a 
linkage array, which encodes hierarchical cluster similarities. We can then feed this linkage array into the 
scipy dendrogram function to plot the dendrogram: 

The dendrogram illustrates the data points as numbered from 0 to 11 at the bottom. A tree structure is 
then created with these points, each representing individual clusters, and new parent nodes are added 
as pairs of clusters are merged. Starting from the bottom and moving upward, the first merger involves 
points 1 and 4. Next, points 6 and 9 form a cluster, and this merging continues. At the top level, there are 
two main branches: one includes points 11, 0, 5, 10, 7, 6, and 9, while the other consists of points 1, 4, 
3, 2, and 8. These two branches represent the two largest clusters on the left side of the plot. 
DBSCAN (Density-Based Spatial Clustering of Applications with Noise) is another powerful clustering 
algorithm. Its key advantages are that it does not require specifying the number of clusters beforehand, 
it can identify clusters with complex shapes, and it can detect outliers or points that don't belong to any 
cluster. Although DBSCAN is slower than both agglomerative clustering and k-means, it can still handle 
relatively large datasets. 

DBSCAN operates by identifying dense regions in the feature space, where many data points are located 
close to each other. These dense regions are considered potential clusters, separated by areas that are 
relatively sparse. Points within a dense region are termed core samples (or core points). Two key 
parameters control DBSCAN: min_samples and eps. If there are at least min_samples points within a 
distance of eps from a given point, it is labeled as a core sample. 

The algorithm starts by selecting an arbitrary point and finds all points within a distance of eps. If fewer 
than min_samples points are found within this radius, the point is marked as noise, meaning it does not 
belong to any cluster. If more than min_samples points are within eps, the point is labeled as a core 
sample and assigned to a new cluster. The algorithm then visits all neighboring points within eps. If those 
neighbors haven't been assigned a cluster, they are given the same cluster label. If any of the neighbors 
are core samples, their neighbors are recursively visited, and the cluster grows until there are no more 
core samples within eps. The process repeats with an unvisited point, and the algorithm continues until 
all points have been processed.