In the end, there are three kinds of points: core points, points that are within distance eps of core points 
(called boundary points), and noise. When the DBSCAN algorithm is run on a particular dataset multiple 
times, the clustering of the core points is always the same, and the same points will always be labeled as 
noise. However, a boundary point might be neighbor to core samples of more than one cluster. Therefore, 
the cluster membership of boundary points depends on the order in which points are vis- ited. Usually 
there are only few boundary points, and this slight dependence on the order of points is not important. 
Let’s apply DBSCAN on the synthetic dataset we used to demonstrate agglomerative clustering. Like 
agglomerative clustering, DBSCAN does not allow predictions on new test data, so we will use the 
fit_predict method to perform clustering and return the cluster labels in one step: 
 
As you can see, all data points were assigned the label -1, which stands for noise. This is a consequence 
of the default parameter settings for eps and min_samples, which are not tuned for small toy datasets. 
The cluster assignments for different values of min_samples and eps are shown below, and visualized: 

In this plot, points belonging to clusters are represented by solid markers, while noise points are shown 
in white. Core samples are indicated by larger markers, and boundary points are represented by smaller 
ones. As eps increases (moving from left to right in the figure), the clusters expand to include more 
points, but this may also lead to the merging of distinct clusters into one. Conversely, 
increasing min_samples (moving from top to bottom) results in fewer points being classified as core 
samples, and more points being labeled as noise. 
The eps parameter is typically more influential, as it sets the proximity threshold for points to be 
considered as part of the same cluster. If eps is too small, no points may qualify as core samples, and all 
points could be labeled as noise. On the other hand, if eps is too large, all points may end up in a single 
cluster. 

The min_samples parameter mainly impacts whether points in less dense areas are treated as outliers or 
included in their own clusters. Lowering min_samples causes smaller groups to be labeled as noise. For 
instance, when min_samples is set to 3, three clusters are formed: one with four points, one with five 
points, and one with three points. However, when min_samples is increased to 5, the smaller clusters 
(with three and four points) are considered noise, leaving only the cluster with five points. 
Although DBSCAN does not require specifying the number of clusters directly, adjusting eps affects the 
number of clusters identified. Finding the optimal eps value can be easier when the data is scaled using 
methods like StandardScaler or MinMaxScaler, as these techniques ensure that all features are on a 
similar scale. The outcome of running DBSCAN on the two_moons dataset is shown here, where the 
algorithm successfully identifies the two half-circles and separates them using the given settings.