two most similar clusters 
until a predefined stopping condition is met. In scikit-learn, this stopping condition is set by the desired 
number of clusters, and clusters are merged until that number is reached. The similarity between clusters 
is measured using different linkage criteria, each defining how to evaluate the proximity between two 
clusters. 

Scikit-learn offers three linkage methods: 
• Ward: The default option, Ward merges clusters in such a way that the increase in the overall 
variance within all clusters is minimized. This typically results in clusters of similar size. 
• Average: This method merges clusters with the smallest average distance between all points in 
the two clusters. 
• Complete: Also known as maximum linkage, this criterion merges clusters based on the smallest 
maximum distance between any two points in the clusters. 

Ward is suitable for most datasets, and will be used in the examples here. However, if the clusters have 
significantly different sizes, such as when one cluster is much larger than the others, average or complete 
linkage may produce better results. 
The following plot demonstrates the process of agglomerative clustering applied to a two-dimensional 
dataset, where the goal is to identify three clusters.

Initially, each point is its own cluster. Then, in each step, the two clusters that are closest are merged. In 
the first four steps, two single-point clusters are picked and these are joined into two-point clusters. In 
step 5, one of the two-point clusters is extended to a third point, and so on. In step 9, there are only 
three clusters remain- ing. As we specified that we are looking for three clusters, the algorithm then 
stops. Let’s have a look at how agglomerative clustering performs on the simple threecluster data we 
used here. Because of the way the algorithm works, agglomerative clustering cannot make predictions 
for new data points. Therefore, Agglomerative Clustering has no predict method. To build the model and 
get the cluster member- ships on the training set, use the fit_predict method instead. 

As expected, the algorithm recovers the clustering perfectly. While the scikit-learn implementation of 
agglomerative clustering requires you to specify the number of clusters you want the algorithm to find, 
agglomerative clustering methods provide some help with choosing the right number, which we will 
discuss next. 