2.5 Applications of PCA 
Applying PCA to the Cancer Dataset for Visualization 
One of the most common applications of PCA is to visualize high-dimensional datasets. As discussed in 
Chapter 1, visualizing data with more than two features can be challenging. For the Iris dataset, we could 
use a pair plot (Figure 1-3 in Chapter 1) to show combinations of two features for a partial view of the 
data. However, for the Breast Cancer dataset, a pair plot becomes unmanageable because it has 30 
features, resulting in 420 scatter plots (30 * 14). Analyzing all of these plots in detail would be impossible. 
A simpler visualization method is to create histograms for each feature, comparing the two classes: 
benign and malignant cancers. 

Before applying PCA, we scale the data using the StandardScaler to ensure each feature has unit 
variance. Applying the PCA transformation is as straightforward as any other preprocessing step. We start 
by creating a PCA object, fitting it to the data to identify the principal components, and then applying the 
rotation and dimensionality reduction by calling the transform method. By default, PCA rotates (and 
shifts) the data without reducing its dimensionality. To reduce the dimensionality, we must specify how 
many components to retain when initializing the PCA object: 

Eigenfaces for feature extraction  
Another application of PCA that we mentioned earlier is feature extraction. The idea behind feature 
extraction is that it is possible to find a representation of your data that is better suited to analysis than 
the raw representation you were given. A great example of an application where feature extraction is 
helpful is with images. Images are made up of pixels, usually stored as red, green, and blue (RGB) 
intensities. Objects in images are usually made up of thousands of pixels, and only together are they 
meaningful. We will give a very simple application of feature extraction on images using PCA, by working 
with face images from the Labeled Faces in the Wild dataset. This dataset contains face images of 
celebrities downloaded from the Internet, and it includes faces of politicians, singers, actors, and athletes 
from the early 2000s. We use gray- scale versions of these images, and scale them down for faster 
processing.