For low settings of eps, all points are labeled as noise. For eps=7, we get many noise points and many 
smaller clusters. For eps=9 we still get many noise points, but we get one big cluster and some smaller 
clusters. Starting from eps=11, we get only one large cluster and noise. What is interesting to note is that 
there is never more than one large cluster. At most, there is one large cluster containing most of the 
points, and some smaller clusters. This indicates that there are not two or three different kinds of face 
images in the data that are very distinct, but rather that all images are more or less equally similar to (or 
dissimilar from) the rest. The results for eps=7 look most interesting, with many small clusters. We can 
investigate this clustering in more detail by visualizing all of the points in each of the 13 small clusters: 

Some of the clusters correspond to people with very distinct faces (within this dataset), such as Sharon 
or Koizumi. Within each cluster, the orientation of the face is also quite fixed, as well as the facial 
expression. Some of the clusters contain faces of multiple people, but they share a similar orientation 
and expression. This concludes our analysis of the DBSCAN algorithm applied to the faces dataset. As you 
can see, we are doing a manual analysis here, different from the much more automatic search approach 
we could use for supervised learning based on R 2 score or accuracy. Let’s move on to applying k-means 
and agglomerative clustering. Analyzing the faces dataset with k-means. We saw that it was not possible 
to create more than one big cluster using DBSCAN. Agglomerative clustering and k-means are much more 
likely to create clusters of even size, but we do need to set a target number of clusters. We could set the 
number of clusters to the known number of people in the dataset, though it is very unlikely that an 
unsupervised clustering algorithm will recover them. Instead, we can start with a low number of clusters, 
like 10, which might allow us to analyze each of the clusters:

As you can see, k-means clustering partitioned the data into relatively similarly sized clusters from 64 to 
386. This is quite different from the result of DBSCAN. We can further analyze the outcome of k-means 
by visualizing the cluster centers. As we clustered in the representation produced by PCA, we need to 
rotate the cluster centers back into the original space to visualize them, using pca.inverse_transform: 
 
The cluster centers found by k-means are very smooth versions of faces. This is not very surprising, given 
that each center is an average of 64 to 386 face images. Working with a reduced PCA representation adds 
to the smoothness of the images (compared to the faces reconstructed using 100 PCA dimensions). The 
clustering seems to pick up on different orientations of the face, different expressions (the third cluster 
center seems to show a smiling face), and the presence of shirt collars (see the second-to-last cluster 
center). For a more detailed view, we show for each cluster center the five most typical images in the 
cluster (the images assigned to the cluster that are closest to the cluster center) and the five most atypical 
images in the cluster (the images assigned to the cluster that are furthest from the cluster center): 