Types of Robots 
Robots can be found in the manufacturing industry, the military, space exploration, 
transportation, and medical applications. Below are just some of the uses for robots. 
 
Robots on Earth 
Typical industrial robots do jobs that are difficult, dangerous or dull. They lift heavy 
objects, paint, handle chemicals, and perform assembly work. They perform the same 
job hour after hour, day after day with precision. They don't get tired and they don't 
make errors associated with fatigue and so are ideally suited to performing repetitive 
tasks. The major categories of industrial robots by mechanical structure are: 

• Cartesian robot /Gantry robot: Used for pick and place work, application of sealant, 
assembly operations, handling machine tools and arc welding. It's a robot whose arm 
has three prismatic joints, whose axes are coincident with a Cartesian coordinator. 
• Cylindrical robot: Used for assembly operations, handling at machine tools, spot 
welding, and handling at diecasting machines. It's a robot whose axes form a 
cylindrical coordinate system. 
• Spherical/Polar robot: Used for handling at machine tools, spot welding, diecasting, 
fettling machines, gas welding and arc welding. It's a robot whose axes form a polar 
coordinate system. 
• SCARA robot: Used for pick and place work, application of sealant, assembly 
operations and handling machine tools. It's a robot which has two parallel rotary joints 
to provide compliance in a plane. 
• Articulated robot: Used for assembly operations, diecasting, fettling machines, gas 
welding, arc welding and spray painting. It's a robot whose arm has at least three 
rotary joints.  
• Parallel robot: One use is a mobile platform handling cockpit flight simulators. It's a 
robot whose arms have concurrent prismatic or rotary joints. 
 
A number of people to describe a robot and most of them will answer they look like 
a human. Interestingly a robot that looks like a human is probably the most difficult 
robot to make. Is is usually a waste of time and not the most sensible thing to model 
a robot after a human being. A robot needs to be above all functional and designed 
with qualities that suits its primary tasks. It depends on the task at hand whether the 
robot is big, small, able to move or nailed to the ground. Each and every task means 
different qualities, form and function, a robot needs to be designed with the task in 
mind.