Limits on Logic 
Given that we can model computation as a "proof", and proceed from facts (axioms) 
and rules to prove new facts (ie, compute), we are interested in knowing whether 
there are any limits to what we can prove (ie, compute). 
 
Two of the most fundamental results in mathematical logic place limits on what we 
can compute: 
 
* The Incompleteness Theorem [Kurt Goedel, 1931] states that for number theory 
(predicate logic restricted to predicates involving  integers, +, *, =, and <), there are 
expressions that are true, but  which cannot be proved to be true. 
* The Halting Problem [Alan Turing, 1936] states that for any  computational 
model equivalent to modern computers (including   Pascal, C, and Prolog) there is 
no program that takes as input an 
arbitrary program and its input, and determines whether or not the  program 
halts on that input. 
 
The halting problem is undecidable 
Suppose we could decide, given a program and its input, whether that program would 
halt when run on that input. Then we could create the following program, D, that 
takes some other program P as input, and decides whether P halts when given itself 
(i.e. the text of P) as input. 
 
If P halts, D runs it and looks at its output. If P prints "true", D also prints "true". 
Otherwise (if P doesn't halt, or prints something other than "true"), D prints "false". 
 
Given D we can build a "complement" program C that also takes programs as input. 
Internally C runs D and then prints the opposite of what D does. That is, if D prints 
"true", C prints "false". If D prints "false", C prints "true". 
 
Now the question arises: what does C print when given itself as input? If C prints 
"false" that means D would have printed "true", meaning that D's input program 
(namely C!) would have printed "true" (ouch). 
Similarly, if C prints "true" that means D would have printed "false", meaning that D's 
input program (C) would either have run forever or halted and printed something 
other than "true" (double ouch). 
 
The contradiction implies that our original assumption (the existence of D) must be 
wrong.