After 1947 Turing continued to a wider and more constructive discussion of how 
machines might perform apparently non-mechanical tasks: how completely 
unintelligent micro-operations might add up to intelligent processes. It was presented 
in an internal report 'Intelligent Machinery' for the National Physical Laboratory 
(Turing 1948). This was not published (until 1968), but was in many ways the basis of 
his better-known and less technical 1950 exposition. One interesting feature of this 
1948 report is the evidence it gives of a wartime inspiration for his new ideas. Turing 
referred to images of the writer Dorothy Sayers, to illustrate the commonly accepted 
meaning of 'mechanical' behaviour. The book he quoted was one he was reading at 
Bletchley Park in 1941. Turing also tellingly described 1940 as the date after which 
machines were no longer restricted to 'extremely straightforward, possibly even to 
repetitious, jobs.' He must have had his own Enigma-breaking Bombe, and other 
highly sophisticated codebreaking operations, in mind. 
 
In this report, Turing characterised intelligence as requiring 'discipline', which he 
identified with the programmability of a universal machine, plus a residue of 
'initiative.' Initiative now played the role that 'intuition' had done in 1938: mental 
actions apparently going beyond the scope of a 'definite method'. How was initiative 
to be found within the scope of computable operations, and so implemented on a 
computer? 
 
Turing suggested various possibilities all based on imitating human brains: learning, 
teaching, training, searching. From the outset of his design work in 1945, Turing had 
been enthusiastic for exploiting the feature of a stored-program computer that a 
program can be manipulated in the same was as data. These ideas took his enthusiasm 
further, by having the machine actively modify its own programs. Turing emphasized 
that at a more fundamental level the concept of 'a machine changing its own 
instructions' was 'really a nonsensical form of phraseology', but it was convenient. The 
upshot of his argument was that by one means or another, and 

probably using many methods in combination, a computer could be made to imitate 
the mental functions of human brains. 
 
From a purely biographical point of view, it is remarkable that someone so original, 
and whose individual qualities had generally been stoutly resisted by his social 
environment, should arrive at the conclusion that creativity is a computable process, 
something that could be achieved by a computer. But it was where he was led by his 
guiding idea of the brain as a finite machine, whose operations must be computable 
however different they appeared from what people had hitherto thought of as 
'mechanical' in nature.