Autonomous robots run a program that give them the opportunity to decide on the 
action to perform depending on their surroundings. At times these robots even learn 
new behavior. They start out with a short routine and adapt this routine to be more 
successful at the task they perform. The most successful routine will be repeated as 
such their behavior is shaped. Autonomous robots can learn to walk or avoid 
obstacles they find in their way. Think about a six legged robot, at first the legs move 
ad random, after a little while the robot adjust its program and performs a pattern 
which enables it to move in a direction. 
 
Remote-control Robots 
An autonomous robot is despite its autonomous not a very clever or intelligent unit. 
The memory and brain capacity is usually limited, an autonomous robot can be 
compared to an insect in that respect. 
In case a robot needs to perform more complicated yet undetermined tasks an 
autonomous robot is not the right choice. 
 
Complicated tasks are still best performed by human beings with real brainpower. A 
person can guide a robot by remote control. A person can perform difficult and 
usually dangerous tasks without being at the spot where the tasks are performed. To 
detonate a bomb it is safer to send the robot to the danger area. 
 
Virtual Robots 
Virtual robots don’t exist in real life. Virtual robots are just programs, building blocks 
of software inside a computer. A virtual robot can simulate a real robot or just 
perform a repeating task. A special kind of robot is a robot that searches the world 
wide web. The internet has countless robots crawling from site to site. These 
WebCrawler’s collect information on websites and send this information to the search 
engines. 
 
BEAM Robots 
BEAM is short for Biology, Electronics, Aesthetics and Mechanics. BEAM robots are 
made by hobbyists. BEAM robots can be simple and very suitable for starters. 
 
Biology 
Robots are often modeled after nature. A lot of BEAM robots look remarkably like 
insects. Insects are easy to build in mechanical form. Not just the mechanics are in 
inspiration also the limited behavior can easily be programmed in a limited amount 
of memory and processing power.