His last published paper (Turing 1954), was again semi-popular, appearing in Penguin 
Science News. This did not mention quantum mechanics, but it went back to the pure 
mathematics of computability (which had taken recent new life with advances in 
algebra), and gave an account of Gödel's theorem. His conclusion was surprisingly 
unlike that pronounced 1950; he said that Gödel's theorem showed that 'common 
sense' was needed in interpreting axioms, and this time the intuitive 'common sense' 
was not asserted to be a something a machine could show as well as a human being. 
The year 1950 seems to have marked the peak of his dogmatism about machine 
intelligence, but it is impossible to know how his views would have developed had he 
lived longer.

In recent years Roger Penrose has taken up the two themes that Turing found most 
difficult to fit into his thesis of computable mental functions — Gödel's theorem and 
the quantum-mechanical reduction process — and has said that they must be 
connected (Penrose 1989, 1994, 1996). Penrose holds that the function of brain 
cannot be simulated by a computer program because of its quantum mechanical 
physical basis. Thus, for entirely materialist reasons, no truly intelligent behaviour will 
ever be simulated by a computer: the full Turing test will never be passed. Many 
commentators have attacked this conclusion, but it must be said that the topics 
Penrose emphasises are those that Turing himself found central to his arguments. 
We are now so used to the properties of digital machines that is hard to imagine the 
world in which Turing conjured them from pure imagination in 1936. However it is 
crucial to see that what Turing offered in 1950, based on this earlier work, was 
something that went beyond the traditional mind-matter debate, and beyond loose 
science-fiction talk about humans and robots. It had a new solid substance in the 
digital or discrete-state machine model, made clear as never before. This structure, 
however, had a non-obvious limitation expressed by Gödel's theorem and Turing's 
own discoveries in the theory of computability. Turing always had these questions in 
mind. Turing's universal machine now seems to sweep all before it, and continues to 
captivate us with the apparently never-ending range of applications that it can 
encompass. Turing's own excitement for this project, his game-playing enthusiasm 
and iconoclastic humour, live on in every conversation-program writer of the present 
day. But it should be remembered that Turing's imitation game actually first arose as 
the 'fair play' argument for escaping the force of Gödel's theorem and the serious 
puzzle posed by the limits of what can be computed(Maurya et al., 2023).  
50 years ago Alan Turing created a test to determine how computers can be as smart 
as people. He said if we posed the same questions to a computer and a person and 
could not tell from the answer which was which, then computers would essentially 
have become as smart as people. Below are questions that an average person could 
answer but a computer could not.