During the two years Turing spent at Princeton, from 1936 to 1938, he was 
investigating the logic of the incomputable. Turing's exposition (Turing 1939) 
described the 'formulae, seen intuitively to be correct, but which the Gödel theorem 
shows are unprovable in the original system.' In this pre-war period, Turing apparently 
left open the possibility that the mind had an 'intuitive' power of performing 
incomputable steps beyond the scope of the Turing machine (a thesis, incidentally, 
that was always held by Gödel himself.) 
 
But in the period around 1941 when the immediate crisis of the Enigma problem was 
resolved, Turing began to discuss with colleagues at Bletchley Park the possibility of 
machines playing chess (Hodges 1983, p. 213). Chess-playing was in fact a civilian 
analogue of what they were doing in their secret work, in which mechanical methods 
of great sophistication were outdoing some aspects of human intuition. It seems, 
taking the view expressed in (Hodges 1997, 2002), that Turing probably decided in 
about 1941 that the scope of computable operations was in fact sufficient to account 
for those mental operations apparently 'non-mechanical' by the standards of ordinary 
language, and even the apparently uncomputable operations of truth-recognition. 
There was possibly another wartime influence on his development: Turing' general 
exposure to modern ideas such as the neural physiology of the brain and the 
behaviourist model of the mind. McCulloch and Pitts (1943) related their logical 
model of neurons to Turing's computability; Turing returned the compliment by 
referring to this work. 

Turing was developing the picture of the brain as a finite 
discrete state machine. In a sense this was only a small step from the 'finitely many 
states of mind' of 1936. But it went further because Turing's postwar idea was that 
all mental function of the brain could be accommodated in this model, and not just 
those of a mind following a definite rule. As we shall see, Turing framed an argument 
to explain how this mechanical picture of the brain could be reconciled with the 
counter-arguments from Gödel's theorem. 

Very possibly it was this new conviction that made him so enthusiastic in the closing 
stages of the war about the prospect of building an electronic version of the universal 
machine. He was not highly motivated by building a computer to work out 
programmed mathematical operations. His interest was more in the nature of the 
mind. Informally, when speaking of his computer plans in 1945, he called them plans 
for 'building a brain.