4. What construction methods are appropriate to the design? 
Construction techniques fall into the categories of: 
• cutting and shaping 
• fabrication - the assembly of the parts using screws, bolts, glues, solder, etc 
• moulding - by the application of a force on the material 
• casting - using a mould to form the shape of a solidifying material 
A particular material can only be worked in a limited number of ways. The method of 
construction therefore will be determined by the chosen material, the availability of 
manufacturing facilities, the skills of the work force and the production costs. 
5. What are the likely social and environmental effects of the design? 
The manufacture, use and disposal of any product will have both beneficial 
and detrimental effects upon people, wildlife and the environment. The designer therefore, has an 
enormous responsibility to consider very carefully the potential effects of any new design. 
This will include: health and safety factors, noise, smell, pollution, etc.

Gathering information can involve reading, listening, conducting interviews and 
observing. 
A specification is a detailed description of the problem to be solved. It should 'spell 
out' exactly what the design must achieve. 

Creating a Prototype 
• testing the design 
• troubleshooting the design
 
You should ideally think of at least three different ways to solve the problem before 
you concentrate on any one in particular. Sketches and notes are required at this 
stage. You can also create prototypes using lego for this step. Once you have created 
a lego prototype, take a digital picture of it. Print out the picture and jot your notes 
below the picture in your log book. Once you have settled on one solution, go back 
over the list of specifications you have made. Make sure that each specification is 
satisfied. 

Now it the time to produce some working drawings. These are the drawings that will 
assist you as you begin constructing the prototype of your structure. (Here again, lego 
and a digital camera might be your best friend.) You may choose to do your drawings 
by hand or you might want to use a draw program on the computer to assist you. 
Determine a working schedule for yourself. Draw up a timetable showing how much 
time you expect to spend on each part of the design process. Your planning should 
also ensure that you have all the necessary materials and equipment that you need 
to complete your project. 