The basis in human calculation is emphasized in Turing's arguments. The 'squares' of 
the Turing machine 'tape,' for instance, originated in Turing's explanation as the 
squares of a child's exercise book. The atomic operations of scanning, marking, 
erasing, moving to left and right were likewise related to human actions. Above all the 
finite number of 'configurations' of a Turing machine were related to the finite 
number of states of mind, or finite memory, of a human calculator. This very bold 

 
appeal to modelling 'states of mind' by states of a machine seems already to anticipate 
the thesis of machine intelligence in 1950. Should we then say that Turing in 1950 was 
only re-stating the implications of what he had claimed in 1936? 
A simple reading of the story would support this view. It might be argued that from 
1936 onwards Turing steadfastly sought and found ways to implement his theory in 
practice. In 1937 Turing began a practical interest in electromagnetic relays to 
implement logical operations, an interest very different from anything expected of a 
Cambridge pure mathematician (Hodges 1983, p. 139). After 1939 this interest turned 
into one of immense practical importance. Turing's ingenious logic was translated into 
working electromagnetic machinery at Bletchley Park, Buckinghamshire, the centre 
of British code-breaking operations. His algorithm for breaking the Enigma- 
enciphered German messages, as embodied in the British 'Bombe', lay at the centre 
of its success. He personally headed the work of deciphering German naval messages, 
and led the development of many methods and machines of astonishing efficiency. 
He was introduced to American work at the highest level, and to the most advanced 
electronic technology. In this way he learnt that electronic storage and electronic 
circuits could make an effective and fast practical version of the 'paper tape' and 
configurations needed for a universal machine. He learnt electronics for himself, again 
a highly unconventional step. Turing emerged from the war in 1945 full of enthusiasm 
for engineering a practical version of the universal machine — in modern parlance a 
stored-program computer. By a remarkable sequence of events Turing was taken on by 
the National Physical Laboratory, London, with exactly this commission. His plan was 
submitted in March 1946 (Turing 1946). As well as pioneering key ideas in computer 
hardware and software design, it mentioned the idea of the machine showing 
'intelligence,' with chess-playing as a paradigm. This germ then rapidly developed 
into the programme set out in the 1950 paper.