FOUR | THE TURING TEST 
 
4.0 INTRODUCTION 
The short and extraordinary life of the British mathematician Alan Turing involves the 
foundations of mathematics, the origin of the computer, the secret crypto logical war 
against Nazi Germany, and much more. For the modern public, one of the most 
frequent mentions of his name comes in yet another context: the philosophy of Mind 
and Artificial Intelligence. Specifically, he is immortalized in the 'Turing test' for 
intelligence, which Turing himself called 'the imitation game'. 
 
The famous Test appeared in Turing's paper Computing Machinery and 
Intelligence, published in October 1950 in the philosophical journal Mind  (Turing 
1950). Turing was then employed at Manchester University, where the world's 
first stored- program computer had been working since June 
1948. Turing had not been appointed to produce philosophical papers; his primary function was to create and 
manage the first software for the computer. However he had also continued his 
research in mathematics, and had been drawn into discussion with the scientific 
philosopher Michael Polanyi, who encouraged him to publish his views on what Turing 
called 'intelligent machinery'. The point of his paper, of which the imitation game was 
only a part, was to argue that intelligence of a human level could be evinced by a 
suitably programmed computer. The imitation game lent definiteness to the idea of 
being as intelligent as a human being.

Turing's 1950 paper did not arise in isolation, and the purpose of this biographical 
sketch is to set Turing's test in the context of his life and work. The 1950 paper was 
an important summary of his views for the general philosophical public, but he had 
been developing those views for many years. It would also be a mistake to think of 
Turing as a mathematician making a detached comment on the potential of 
computers. He was very fully engaged in the development of modern computer 
science both in theory and in practice.