4.3 INTELLIGENT MACHINERY 
With this in mind, we can examine in more detail his very first written mention of 
'intelligent' machinery in (Turing 1946). One should first note how remarkable it was, 
that Turing should put a speculative claim about intelligence in a purely technical, 
practical report. However this was entirely typical of his modus operandi. One should 
next appreciate that Turing always relished the paradox, even apparent contradiction 
in terms, involved in speaking of 'intelligent' machinery. First he explained how the 
computer could be programmed to calculate chess moves. He continued, underlining 
the paradox: 
 
This... raises the question 'Can a machine play chess?' It could fairly easily be made to 
play a rather bad game. It would be bad because chess requires intelligence. We 
stated... that the machine should be treated as entirely without intelligence. There 
are indications however that it is possible to make the machine display intelligence at 
the risk of its making occasional serious mistakes. By following up this aspect the 
machine could probably be made to play very good chess. 
 
This mysterious reference to 'mistakes', which could have made no sense to anyone 
reading this report, is explained in a talk of February 1947 (Turing 1947). Here the idea 
of 'mistake-making' appeared in the context of the objection to the prospect of 
machine intelligence posed by Gödel's theorem. This objection (which appears as 'The 
Mathematical Objection' in the 1950 paper) is that no Turing machine (i.e. computer 
program) can do as well as a human being. The human being can see the truth of 
mathematical assertions which cannot be proved by following rules based on formal 
axioms. 
 
Turing's post-war argument (the point of view he probably arrived at in about 1941) 
is, however, that human beings do not reliably see the truth of such statements. 
Mathematicians, their brains being discrete state machines, can only employ an 
algorithm. Gödel's theorem tells us that no algorithm can coincide in every case with 
truth-seeing, and so the algorithm is bound sometimes to fail. But if it is accepted that 
the mathematician is not infallible, and will sometimes fail, it follows that machines 
— also implementing algorithms, and therefore also making mistakes — may do 
equally well. To illustrate the theme of doing equally well, Turing appealed to the 
concept of 'fair play for machines.' This concept was essentially the idea of the 
imitation game. The 1950 scenario merely added dramatic detail. Thus, the imitation 
game had its origins in the wartime debate in Turing's own mind about how to 
reconcile Gödel's theorem and the apparently non-mechanical actions of human 
minds with the discrete state machine model of the brain.