This point can be further refined. Turing's description of computability in the 1950 
paper was all based on the finite capabilities of real, finite machines, illustrated by an 
account of the Manchester computer as it then stood. His claim was that the 
simulation of thought did not even require the full scope of computable functions, 
only that infinitesimal fraction of them which could be run using only a finite amount 
of 'tape'. (As a technical point, Turing's description did not even mention the 'tape'. 
This is because a finite tape can be absorbed into the instruction table of a Turing 
machine, which in turn he identified with the store of a computer such as the 
Manchester computer. This resulted in him rather confusingly describing the full 
gamut of computable processes as requiring an 'infinite store.' This is, however, just 
the unlimited supply of tape as prescribed in 1936, not an infinite instruction table.) 
He specified a necessary storage capacity of 109 bits, which of course is far surpassed 
by modern personal computers.

A fortiori, there is no suggestion in this paper of anything beyond the scope of 
computability. There were three areas of Turing's discussion where mathematics 
beyond the computable was raised, but in each case the thrust of Turing's argument 
was that computable operations would suffice. One of these was the Gödel argument, 
actually rather more weakly addressed in this than in his earlier papers, but still 
concluding that it had no force. The second lay in Turing's discussion of 'the continuity 
of the nervous system.' He claimed that the brain's basis in continuous matter, rather 
than being a discrete machine, was again no argument against the computability of 
thought: a discrete system could approximate a continuous one as closely as desired. 
The third was the concept of randomness, which Turing introduced without any 
serious definition. His illustration used 'the digits of π' as a random sequence, and this 
is par excellence a computable input. 
 
In fact Turing's exposition also runs through two stages, reflecting what has been 
suggested above as his '1936' and '1941' stages of development. First the concept of 
computable functions, thought of as planned instructions (p. 438), and then followed 
the finite discrete state machine picture (p. 440). However, as he argued, these 
differently pictured machines could alike be implemented on a universal machine, the 
computer. This same two-part structure came into his final constructive proposals for 
the development of machine intelligence. Turing imagined rule-based programming 
(rather like expert systems as later developed), but also the 'child machine' learning 
for itself. Turing concluded by recommending that 'both approaches should be tried': 
he never suggested a rigid dichotomy between top-down and bottom-up approaches, 
which was later to divide Artificial Intelligence research so deeply.