TWO | BASIC ELEMENTS OF ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE 
 
 
LEARNING OUTCOMES 
After completing this chapter, Learners should be able to: 
1. Demonstrate knowledge and understanding of the concepts, 
principles, rules and theorems that underlie expert systems, 
knowledge systems and machine learning as they are applied to the 
field of Artificial Intelligence. 
 
2.0 EXPERT SYSTEMS 
Expert system is an artificial intelligence program that has expert-level knowledge 
about a particular domain and knows how to use its knowledge to respond properly. 
Domain refers to the area within which the task is being performed. Ideally the expert 
systems should substitutea human expert. Edward Feigenbaum of Stanford University has defined
expert system as “an intelligent computer program that uses
knowledge and inference procedures to solve problems that are difficult enough to
require significant human expertise for their solutions.” It is a branch of artificial
intelligence introduced by researchers in the Stanford Heuristic Programming Project.

The expert systems are a branch of AI designed to work within a particular domain.
As an expert is a person who can solve a problem with the domain knowledge in hands
it should be able to solve problems at the level of a human expert. The source of
knowledge may come from a human expert and/or from books, magazines and
internet. As knowledge plays a key role in the functioning of expert systems they are
also known as knowledge-based systems and knowledge-based expert systems. The
expert’s knowledge about solving the given specific problems is called knowledge
domain of the expert.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                