Digital 

Start with your digital platforms. First the basics (not big data yet). 
You’ll probably already have some web analytics tags on your website that record high-level 
events. Make sure you also record the key moments in the customer journey, such as when 
the visitor does an onsite search, selects filters, visits specific 
pages, downloads material, watches your videos or places items in the checkout basket. 

Record mouse events, such as scrolls and hovers. Make sure these moments are tagged in a 
way that preserves the details you’ll need later, such as adding the details of product 
category, price range, and product ID to the web tags associated with each item description 
page. This will allow you to quickly do top-of-mind analysis, such as identifying how often 
products in certain categories were viewed, or how effective a marketing campaign was in 
driving a desired event. In the end, you’ll probably have several dozen or even several 
hundred specific dimensions that you add to your out-of-the-box web analytics data. This isn’t 
yet big data. 
With the additional detailed tags that you’ve implemented, you’ll be able to analyse and 
understand many aspects of the customer journey, giving insights into how different types of 
customers interact with the products you’ve presented them. We’ll show examples of this 
below. 
If you haven’t already done so, set up conversion funnels for sequential events that lead to 
important conversion events, such as purchases.  shows how a basic purchase funnel might 
look. 
Each intermediate goal in the conversion funnel is a micro-conversion, together leading to a 
macro-conversion (‘checkout’ in this case). Choose your micro-conversions in a way that 
reflects increasing engagement and increased likelihood of a final conversion. The funnels you 
set up will enable you to analyse drop-off rates at each stage, allowing you to address 
potential problem points and increase the percentage of visitors progressing along each stage 
of the funnel, eventually reaching the conversion event at the end of the funnel. Depending 
on your product, customer movement down the funnel may span several days, weeks or 
months, so you’ll need to decide what to consider ‘drop-off’. 

For privacy and governance in your website, research and comply with local laws governing 
the use of web cookies. Make a list of where you are storing the browsing data that identifies 
the individual user (such as IP address) and how you later use the insights you’ve gathered in 
customizing your interactions with each user. For example, if you personalize your 
content and marketing based on the users’ online actions, 

you’ll need to consider the ethical and legal implications. Remember the example 
from Target. Now the big data part. You’ve set up the web analytics to record details most meaningful for 
you. Now hook your web page up to a big data system that will record every online event for 
every web visitor. You’ll need a big data storage system, such as HDFS, and you’ll need to implement code 
(typically JavaScript) that sends the events to that storage. If you want a minimum-pain solution, use Google Analytics’ premium 
service (GA360), and activate the BigQuery integration. This will send your web data to 
Google’s cloud storage, allowing you to analyse it in detail within a few hours. If you need 
data in real time, you can change the GA JavaScript method sendHitTask and send the same 
data to both Google and to your own storage system.