ISO/IEC JTC/SWG 5 
This joint technical committee (JTC) of ISO and IEC produced a subcommittee / working 
group (SWG) that identifies market requirements and standardization gaps. It documents 
standardization activity for IoT from groups internal and external to ISO and IEC. Areas 
of collaboration this SWG focuses on include accessibility, user interfaces, software 
and systems engineering, IT education, IT sustainability, sensor networking, automatic 
identification and data capture, geospatial information, shipping, packaging, and thermal 
performance and energy usage. 
 
W3C - Worldwide Web Consortium (http://www.w3.org) 
In early 2015, W3C launched a Web of Things initiative to develop web standards based 
on IoT and what it calls “a web of data.” Many previous W3C standards efforts are 
fundamental to IoT development including XML, SOAP, WSDL, and REST. 
 
Open Source Projects 
Open source projects are based on the notion of a shared code base with multiple 
committers or contributors. Within IoT, a number of such projects have emerged. Though 
not considered as standards in the classic sense, these efforts can become defacto 
standards if widespread adoption occurs. 
 
Allseen Alliance (http://www.allseenalliance.org) 
This alliance of over 140 members (as of early 2015) created “AllJoyn,” an open source 
framework used in developing IoT projects. The alliance is largely made up of non-IT 
companies interested in building IoT solutions. The framework that was created defines 
data and power transports, language bindings, platforms, and security methods, as well 
as providing a growing array of common services and interfaces. 
 
Contiki (http://www.contiki-os.org) 
Contiki provides an open source development environment (written in C) used to 
connect low-cost and low-power micro-controllers to the Internet (IPv6 and IPv4). The 
environment includes simulators and regression tests. 
 
Eclipse (http://iot.eclipse.org) 
Eclipse provides frameworks for developing IoT gateways including Kura (Java and 
OSGi services) and Mihini (written in Lua scripts). Industry services are bundled in a 
SmartHome project consisting of OSGi bundles and an Eclipse SCADA offering. Tools 
and libraries are provided for Message Queuing Telemetry Transport (MQTT), the 
Constrained Application Protocol (CoAP), and OMA-DM and OMA LWM2M device 
management protocols. 
 
openHAB (http://www.openhab.org) 
An open source project called openHAB produced software capable of integrating home 
automation systems and technologies through a common interface. It can be deployed to 
any intelligent device in the home that can run a Java Virtual Machine (JVM). It includes 

a rules engine enabled through user control and provides interfaces via popular mobile 
devices (Android, iOS) or via the web. 
 
ThingsSpeak (http://www.thingspeak.org) 
ThingSpeak provides APIs for “channels” enabling applications to store and retrieve data 
and for “charts” providing visualization. ThingHTTP enables a device to connect to a web 
service using HTTP over a network or the Internet. Links into Twitter are also provided for