There are two focus areas for proper use of sensitive personal data: data privacy and data 
protection. 

 Data privacy relates to what data you may collect, store and use, such as whether it is 
appropriate to place hidden video cameras in public areas or to use web cookies to 
track online browsing without user consent. 
 Data protection relates to the safeguarding and redistribution of data you have legally 
collected and stored. It addresses questions such as whether you can store private 
data of European residents in data centres outside of Europe. 
Privacy laws 
If you’re in a large organization, you will have an internal privacy officer who should be on a 
first name basis with your data and analytics leader. If you don’t have a privacy officer, you 
should find resources that can advise you in the privacy and data protection laws of the 
jurisdictions in which you have customer bases or data centres. 
Each country determines its own privacy and data protection laws, with Europe having some 
of the most stringent. The EU’s Data Protection Directive of 1995 laid out recommendations 
for privacy and data protection within the EU, but, before the activation of the EU-wide 
General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) in May 2018, each country was left to determine 
and enforce its own laws. If you have EU customers, you’ll need to become familiar with the 
requirements of the GDPR. Figure which shows the rapid rise in number of Google searches 
for the term ‘GDPR’ since January 2017, demonstrates that you won’t be alone in this. 
 
The extent to which privacy laws differ by country has proven challenging for multinational 
organizations, particularly for data-driven organizations that rely on vast stores of personal 
data to better understand and interact with customers. Within Europe over the past years, 
certain data that could be collected in one country could not be collected in a neighbouring 
country, and the personal data that could be collected within Europe could not be sent 
outside of Europe unless the recipient country provided data protection meeting European 
standards. 