5.5 IoT Programming Languages 
Nowadays, IoT software uses more general programming languages than it used to. The 
choice of language for your smart service depends on its compatibility with the system, the 
code size and memory, general requirements and whether your developer is familiar with this 
or that language. Some languages are suitable for general-purpose projects (e.g. Java), others 
are more specific (e.g. Parasail). Here is a list of the main languages in use: 
1.  C and C++ are quite universal and familiar to many programmers. Both languages are 
created to be written for the hardware they are running on, which helps provide ideal code 
for a special built-in system. 
2. Java is rather mobile and is able to run on various hardware. This is a real advantage for 
IoT. 
3. JavaScript is the most widespread language on the Internet. As the greater part of the 
Internet already speaks JavaScrip, it’s a great option for IoT, too. When all of the connected 
devices understand the servers, it’s much easier to make them function. It’s also possible 
to reuse the same JavaScript functions for different devices. 
4. Python is an interpreted language, so it is flexible and easy to use in the IoT world. Python 
is especially good for data-heavy applications. 
5. Go, Rust, Forth, Parasail, B# — these languages were not modified, but specifically 
designed for embedded programming, so they fit the Internet of Things like a glove. 
 
5.6 Open-Source Tools for the Internet of Things 

IoT developers have numerous open-source tools for the Internet of Things at their disposal. 
Utilizing the tools we’ve listed below, you’ll be able to develop successful solutions with ease. 
Arduino Starter Kit. This is a cloud-based system that offers both software and hardware. It 
can be used even by beginner programmers. 
Home Assistant. This tool is aimed at the smart home market and is great for interaction with 
smart sensors in your home. The downside is that it doesn’t have a cloud component. 
Zetta. This is a cloud-based platform built on Node.js. Zetta is perfect for turning devices into 
API. 
Device Hive. This tool functions as an M2M communications framework. Device Hive is quite 
popular for the development of smart homes. 
ThingSpeak. This is one of the oldest and most effective tools for IoT applications in the 
market. ThingSpeak can process huge sums of data, it is used in web design applications and 
location tracking tasks. This tool is able to work with other open-source tools. 
NOD-RED. This is a browser-based tool for wiring the Internet of Things together. It helps deal 
with the flow of the data, integrates with APIs, services and any devices. 