The European Union’s Safe Harbour Decision in 2000 allowed US companies complying with 
certain data governance standards to transfer data from the EU to the US. The ability of 
US companies to safeguard personal data came into question following the Edward Snowden 
affair, so that, on 6 October 2015, the European Court of Justice 
invalidated the EC’s Safe Harbour Decision, noting that ‘legislation 
permitting the public authorities to have access on a generalized 
basis to the content of electronic communications must be regarded as compromising the 
essence of the fundamental right to respect for private life.’85 A replacement for Safe 
Harbou, the EU–US Privacy Shield, was approved by the European Commission nine months 
later (July 2016). 

Data science and privacy revelations 
To protect yourself from legal and reputational risk, you’ll need more than just an 
understanding of laws. You’ll need to understand how customers perceive your use of data, 
and you’ll need to be conscious of how data science techniques can lead to unintended legal 
violations. 

When Target used statistical models to identify and target pregnant shoppers, they were not 
collecting private data, but they were making private revelations with a high degree of 
accuracy. They weren’t breaking laws, but they were taking a public relations risk. 
It’s interesting to compare these examples, as no laws were broken by Target, but the 
company took reputational risk through non-transparent use of personal information. Netflix, 
on the other hand, aligned its efforts in a very open and transparent way with the interests 
of customers, in this case to arrive at better video recommendations. There was little 
reputational risk, but there were legal consequences. 

Other companies and even governments have fallen victim to such ‘linkage attacks’, in which 
linking data sources allows attackers to compromise privacy measures. If your projects 
require you to distribute anonymized personal information, you can apply techniques 
in differential privacy, an area of research in methods to protect against linkage attacks while 
maintaining data accuracy for legitimate applications. You may need this even for internal use 
of data, as laws are increasingly limiting companies’ rights to use personal data without 
explicit consent.