Additionally, securing privileged user access must be a top priority for enterprises. Certain 
users must be given access to highly sensitive data in certain business processes, but avoiding 
potential misuse of data can be tricky. Securing privileged user access requires well-defined 
security policies and controls that permit access to data and systems required by specific 
employee roles while preventing privileged user access to sensitive data where access is not 
necessary – a practice commonly referred to as the “principle of least privilege.” It is critically 
important to provide a system in which encrypted authentication/validation verifies that 
users are who they say they are, and determine who can see what. 

From Big Data adoption arises one question: How can you leverage big data’s potential 
while effectively mitigating big data security risks? 
(Digital Guardian, 2017) 

Since Big Data implementations distribute their processing jobs across many systems for 
faster analysis, due to their large volumes, this means a lot more systems where security 
issues can crop up. 
Non-relational data stores like NoSQL, which are used in Big Data systems, usually lack 
security. 
In Big Data architecture, the data which is usually stored in the cloud, is also typically stored 
on multiple tiers, depending on business needs for performance. For example, high-priority 
“hot” data will usually be stored on flash media for faster performance. Hence securing 
storage will mean creating a tier-conscious security strategy. 
Security solutions that draw logs from endpoints will need to validate the authenticity of 
those endpoints. 

Real-time security tools generate a large amount of information; the key is finding a way to 
ignore the false alarms, so human talent can be focused on the true breaches. 
Data mining solutions should ensure that they are secured against not just external threats, 
but insiders, who abuse network privileges, to obtain sensitive information. 
Security Technologies/Approaches in Big Data 
Granular auditing can help determine when missed attacks have occurred, what the 
consequences were, and what should be done to improve matters in the future. This in itself 
is a lot of data, and must be enabled and protected to be useful in addressing big data security 
issues. 

Data provenance primarily concerns metadata (data about data), which can be extremely 
helpful in determining where data came from, who accessed it, or what was done with it. 
Usually, this kind of data should be analysed with exceptional speed to minimize the time in 
which a breach is active. Privileged users engaged in this type of activity must be thoroughly 
vetted and closely monitored to ensure they do not become their own big data security issues. 
Encryption tools need to secure data in-transit and data at-rest, and more importantly, these 
needs to be achieved across massive data volumes. Furthermore, encryption needs to operate 
on many different types of data, both user and machine-generated. Encryption tools also need 
to work with different analytics toolsets and their output data, and on common big data storage 
formats including relational database management systems (RDBMS), non-relational 
databases like NoSQL, and specialized file systems such as Hadoop Distributed File System 
(HDFS). Encrypted data is useless to external entities, such as hackers, if they do not have the 
key to unlock it. Moreover, encrypting data means that both at input and output, information is 
completely protected. 