5.10 Types of IoT Connections 
An IoT system has a three-level architecture: devices, gateways and data systems. The data 
moves between these levels via four types of transmission channels. 
  
1. Device to device (D2D) — direct contact between two smart objects when they share 
information instantaneously without intermediaries. For example, industrial robots and 
sensors are connected to one another directly to coordinate their actions and perform the 
assembly of components more efficiently. This type of connection is not very common yet, 
because most devices are not able to handle such processes. 
2. Device to gateway — telecommunications between sensors and gateway nodes. 
Gateways are more powerful computing devices than sensors. They have two main functions: 
to consolidate data from sensors and route it to the relevant data system; to analyse data 
and, if some problems are found, return it back to the device. There are various IoT gateway 
protocols that may better suit this or that solution depending on the gateway computing 
capabilities, network capacity and reliability, the frequency of data generation and its quality. 
3. Gateway to data systems — data transmission from a gateway to the appropriate data 
system. To determine what protocol to use, you should analyse data traffic (frequency of 
bustiness and congestion, security requirements and how many parallel connections are 
needed). 
4. Between data systems — information transfer within data centres or clouds. Protocols 
for this type of connection should be easy to deploy and integrate with existing apps, have 
high availability, capacity and reliable disaster recovery. 

Types of IoT Networks 
Networks are divided into categories based on the distance range they provide. 
A nanonetwork — a set of small devices (sized a few micrometres at most) that perform very 
simple tasks such as sensing, computing, storing, and actuation. Such systems are applied in 
the biometrical, military and other nanotechnologies. 
NFC (Near-Field Communication) — a low-speed network to connect electronic devices at a 
distance within 4 cm from each other. Possible applications are contactless payment systems, 
identity documents and key cards. 
BAN (Body Area Network) — a network to connect wearable computing devices that can be 
worn either fixed on the body, or near the body in different positions, or embedded inside 
the body (implants). 
PAN (Personal Area Network) — a net to link up devices within a radius of roughly one or a 
couple of rooms. 
LAN (Local Area Network) — a network covering the area of one building. 
CAN (Campus/Corporate Area Network) — a network that unites smaller local area networks 
within a limited geographical area (enterprise, university). 
MAN (Metropolitan Area Network) — a big network for a certain metropolitan area powered 
by the microwave transmission technology. 
WAN (Wide Area Network) — a network that exists over a large-scale geographical area and 
unites different smaller networks, including LANs and MANs. 