Linking customer data 
Link the customer data from your interaction points to give a holistic picture of customer 
journey. If a customer phones your call centre after looking online at your cancellation policy 
webpage, you should be able to connect those two events in your system. To do this, enter a 
unique customer field (such as phone number or user name) along with the call record. 
If you are monitoring a customer walking through your store, link that footpath with 
subsequent register sales information (subject to privacy considerations). Do this by recording 
the timestamp and location of the point of sale with the footpath data. Combine the data 
centrally to give the complete picture. 

Sometimes you’ll use anonymous customer data, such as when analysing traffic flow. Other 
times you’ll use named-customer data, such as when analysing lifetime activity. For the 
named-customer applications, you’ll want to de-duplicate customers. This is difficult, and 
you’ll probably have limited success. The best situation is when customers always present a 
unique customer ID when using your service. In an online setting, this would require a highly 
persistent and unique login (as with Facebook). Offline, it typically requires photo ID. In most 
situations, you won’t have this luxury, so use best efforts to link customer interactions. 
You’ll typically face the following problems in identifying your customers: 
 Problem: Customers will not identify themselves (e.g. not logging in). 
 Possible solutions: Use web cookies and IP addresses to link visits from the same 
visitors, producing a holistic picture of anonymous customer journeys extended 
across sessions. Use payment details to link purchases to customers. Smartphones may 
provide information to installed apps that allow additional linking. Talk to your app 
developers about this. 
 Problem: Customers create multiple logins. 
 Possible solutions: Clean your customer database by finding accounts that share 
key fields: name, email address, home address, date of birth, or IP address. A 
graph database such as Neo4J can help in this process, as illustrated in Figure. Work 
with the business to create logic for which customers to merge and which to associate 
using a special database field (e.g. ‘spouse of’). Change your account creation process 
to detect and circumvent creation of duplicate accounts, such as by flagging email 
addresses from existing accounts. 