5.3 IoT Development Platforms 
IoT development tools help create smart objects. The first thing you need in order 
to build and launch connected products is a platform. There are plenty available today. Each 
platform can be an ideal fit for some applications, but not for others, due to the different 
characteristics that come with it. Below we’ve listed some popular IoT development 
platforms. IBM Watson https://www.ibm.com/watson 
This platform enables connecting all types of devices and easily developing custom IoT 
solutions. The advantages of IBM Watson are obvious: quick and secure connectivity; an 
ability to control your data flows; online data analysing; the visualization of critical risks and 
the automation of operational responses to them.   
Azure 
https://azure.microsoft.com/en-in/ 

The Azure IoT development platform by Microsoft has some important capabilities. It enables 
you to collect, analyse and visualize data, integrate it with back-office systems, store and 
process large data sets and manage devices. Azure is highly scalable, and it supports a great 
number of devices and operating systems. 
AWS (Amazon Web Services) 
https://aws.amazon.com 
AWS is a managed cloud-based platform that supports billions of devices around the world. 
It provides secure and easy interaction even if the devices are offline. Amazon’s data centers 
are equipped with multiple security levels and ensure seamless access and the safety of your 
data. The main advantage of this platform is that no hardware infrastructure is needed. AWS 
offers low prices without long-term commitments. 

5.4 IoT Operating Systems 
When choosing a platform, it’s necessary to decide on the operating system. There are certain 
limitations to be considered: low processing power, a smaller amount of RAM and storage. 
The most commonly used operating systems for such built-in computers are Linux, Android 
and Ubuntu Core. But there is a great number of other IoT OSs available. 
Here’s a non-exhaustive list: 
RIOT is a free operating system developed by a community consisting of companies, academia 
and hobbyists. RIOT supports most low-power devices and microcontroller architecture. It 
implements all relevant standards to ensure that the Internet of Things is connected, secure, 
durable and provides privacy protection. 
Contiki is an open-source operating system for the Internet of Things created by a worldwide 
team of developers. It provides powerful low-power Internet communication, supports fully 
standard IPv6 and IPv4, along with the recent low-power wireless standards: 6lowpan, RPL 
and CoAP. Contiki runs on a range of low-power wireless devices; its applications are written 
in standard C; development with Contiki is easy and fast. 
ARM mbed OS is an open-source embedded operating system. It includes all the necessary 
features to develop a connected product. Mbed OS provides multilayer security and a wide 
range of communication options with drivers for Bluetooth Low Energy, Thread, 6LoWPAN, 

Ethernet and WiFi. What’s more, necessary libraries are included automatically on your 
devices to facilitate code writing. 
The ThingBox is a set of software already installed and configured on an SDCard. The 
ThingBox allows anyone to graphically create new unlimited applications interacting with 
connected objects from a simple web-browser. This OS is suitable and easy-to-use for both 
technical people and users with no technical background. 
Huawei LiteOS is a lightweight, low energy, efficient operating system. It starts up within 
milliseconds and responds within microseconds. LiteOS coordinates multiple sensors and 
supports long- and short-distance communication. 
Raspbian is one of the most widely used platforms for the Internet of Things. It is a free 
system optimized for the Raspberry Pi hardware. Raspbian includes basic programs and 
utilities to make the hardware run, but it also compiles more than 35,000 packages and pre-
compiled software for easy installation. 
Android Things is an operating system from Google. It lets you build professional, mass-
market products on a trusted platform, without previous knowledge of embedded system 
design. Android Things provides you with leverage for the existing Android development 
tools, APIs, resources and regular security updates. Android Things ensures the development 
of IoT products at scale. 