SAP Leonardo 

SAP is the leading German software company. In 2017, it launched Leonardo as a purely IoT 
platform. But later, it was relaunched as a “digital innovation system” in order to integrate 
more emerging technologies in one place, such as Artificial Intelligence, Machine Learning, 
Big Data, advanced analytics and block chain. Since one technology is not enough to deliver 
good outcomes for customers, this integral approach is really worthwhile. When technologies 
are viewed and implemented jointly, it’s easier to support businesses in any digital aspect and 
accelerate time to value.
 
SAP Leonardo is predicted to be the leading platform for the Internet of Things 2018. The 
platform offers accelerator packages. An accelerator is a fixed-price package tailored to 
specific industries and functions. It comprises methodologies, the necessary licenses, 
development and design services. Accelerators help customers create apps from the initial 
prototype to the final solution.
 
SAP Leonardo offers two services: 
Ready-made applications (e.g. SAP Service Ticketing) 
Micro services and APIs (e.g. the SAP Streaming Analytics micro service) that can be 
integrated into the customer’s own applications 

Cisco IoT Cloud Connect 

Cisco IoT Cloud Connect is originally an offering for mobile operators. This 
mobility-cloud-based software suite is on the list of the best Internet of 
Things cloud platforms. It allows customers to fully optimize and utilize 
networks, provides real-time visibility and updates every level of the 
network. 

Its core feature s include: 
 Voice and data connectivity 
 SIM lifecycle management 
 IP session control 
 Customizable billing and reporting 
Cisco has experience in creating the agricultural Internet of Things solutions for the National 
Farmers Federation in Australia.
 
Its core competencies are: 
 Gateways and edge devices manufacturing 
 Management and monitoring through the Cisco Jasper Control Centre 
 Launching IoT apps through the Development Centre 
 Providing security through IoT Threat Defence 