5.13 Standards Bodies 
IEC - International Electro technical Commission (http://www.iec.ch) 
The IEC has produced numerous IoT white papers including a paper on Wireless Sensor 
Networks (WSNs), and it has taken part in key standards development such as IEC 62056 
(DLMS/COSEM) for smart meters and OPC-UA for data exchange among applications. 
See also the work of the ISO/IEC joint technical committees below. 
 
IEEE - Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers (http://www.ieee.org) 
The IEEE Standards Association (IEEE-SA) has produced an IoT Ecosystem Study and is 
developing the IEEE P2413 standard for an Internet of Things architectural framework. At 
the time this book was first published, P2413 was in early draft. 
Other IEEE standards are also frequently cited in building out IoT infrastructure. 
For example, IEEE 802.15.4 defines a standard for low-data-rate, low-power, short-range 
radio frequency transmissions for wireless personal area networks (WPANs). 
 
IETF - Internet Engineering Task Force (http://www.ietf.org) 
IETF has focused on network routing protocols (for example, IPv6 packets) and is 
working on standards for Constrained RESTful Environments in the IETF CoRE working 
group. These efforts are addressing how to deploy self-organizing sensor networks 
interconnected with IPv6 and building applications using embedded web service 
technology. 

ISA - International Society of Automation (http://www.isa.org) 
ANSI / ISA-100.11a-2011 for “Wireless Systems for Industrial Automation: Process Control 
and Related Applications” was approved in September 2014 and published as IEC 62734. 
It provides a definition of reliable and secure wireless operations including monitoring, 
alerting, supervisory control, open-loop control, and closed-loop applications. After 
initial approval by ANSI in 2011, compliant device production began in earnest and over 
130,000 connected devices had appeared by the end of 2012. ISA / IEC 62443 (formerly 
ISA-99) provides a standard for automation system security. 
 
ISO - International Organization for Standardization (http://www.iso.org) 
ISO standards relevant to IoT include ISO18185 for RFID and numerous other supply 
chain and sensor standards (ranging from device interfaces designed to monitor 
conditions to sensor networking and network security frameworks). At the time of 
publication, ISO/AWI 18575 was planned to address products and product packages for 
IoT in the supply chain. ISO is often seen as providing a valuable resource for reference 
architectures, specifications, and testing procedures. 