Data governance 

Establish and enforce policies within your organization for how employees access and use the 
data in your systems. Designated individuals in your IT department, in collaboration with your 
privacy officers and the owners of each data source, will grant and revoke access to restricted 
data tables using named or role-based authorization policies and will enforce these policies 
with security protocols, often keeping usage logs to verify legitimate data usage. If you are in 
a regulated industry, you will be subject to more stringent requirements, where data 
scientists working with production systems may need to navigate a half dozen layers of 
security to get to the source data. In this case, you’ll want to choose an enterprise big data 
product with features developed for high standards of security and compliance. 
Adding a big data repository to your IT stack may make it more difficult to control access to, 
usage of and eventual removal of personal information. In traditional data stores, data is kept 
in a structured format and each data point can be assessed for sensitivity and assigned 
appropriate access rights. Within big data repositories, data is often kept in unstructured 
format (‘schema on read’ rather than ‘schema on write’), so it is not immediately evident 
what sensitive data is present. 
You may need to comply with right to be forgotten or right to erasure laws, particularly within 
Europe, in which case you must delete certain personal data on request. With big data stores, 
particularly the prevalent ‘data lakes’ of yet-to-be-processed data, it’s harder to know where 
personal data is stored in your systems. 
GDPR will limit your use of data from European customers, requiring express consent for 
many business applications. This will limit the efforts of your data scientists, and you’ll also 
be accountable under ‘right to explanation’ laws for algorithms that impact customers, such 
as calculations of insurance risk or credit score. You will likely need to introduce new access 
controls and audit trails for data scientists to ensure compliance with GDPR. 

A full discussion of GDPR is beyond the scope of this book, and we’ve barely touched on the 
myriad other regulations in Europe and around the world. Also (quick disclaimer) I’m not a 
lawyer. Connect with privacy experts knowledgeable in the laws of the jurisdictions in which 
you operate. 