5.12 Most Popular Internet of Things Protocols, Standards and Communication 
Technologies 
Now, let’s get to the specifics of IoT wireless protocols, standards and 
technologies. There are numerous options and alternatives, but we’ll discuss 
the most popular ones. 
MQTT 
MQTT (Message Queue Telemetry Transport) is a lightweight protocol for 
sending simple data flows from sensors to applications and 
middleware. 
The protocol functions on top of TCP/IP and includes three 
components: subscriber, publisher and broker. The publisher 
collects data and sends it to subscribers. The broker tests 
publishers and subscribers, checking their authorization and ensuring security. 
MQTT suits small, cheap, low-memory and low-power devices. 
DDS 
DDS (Data Distribution Service) is an IoT standard for real-time, scalable and high-
performance machine-to-machine communication. It was developed by the Object 
Management Group (OMG). 
You can deploy DDS both in low-footprint devices and in the cloud. 
The DDS standard has two main layers:Data-Centric Publish-Subscribe 
(DCPS), which delivers the information to subscribers  
Data-Local Reconstruction Layer (DLRL), which provides an interface to DCPS functionalities 
AMQP 
AMQP (Advanced Message Queuing Protocol) is an 
application layer protocol for message-oriented middleware 
environments. It is approved as an international standard. 
The processing chain of the protocol includes three components that follow certain rules. 
1. Exchange — gets messages and puts them in the queues 
2. Message queue — stores messages until they can be safely processed by the client app 
3. Binding — states the relationship between the first and the second components 

Bluetooth 
Bluetooth is a short-range communications technology integrated into most smartphones 
and mobile devices, which is a major advantage for personal products, particularly wearables. 
Bluetooth is well-known to mobile users. But not long ago, the new 
significant protocol for IoT apps appeared — Bluetooth Low-Energy (BLE), 
or Bluetooth Smart. This technology is a real foundation for the IoT, as it 
is scalable and flexible to all market innovations. Moreover, it is designed 
to reduce power consumption.

 Standard: Bluetooth 4.2 
 Frequency: 2.4GHz 
 Range: 50-150m (Smart/BLE) 
 Data Rates: 1Mbps (Smart/BLE) 