4.4 Governance and legal compliance 
You have three primary concerns for securing and governing your data: 
1. Proper collection and safeguarding of personal data. 
2. Internal governance of your own data. 
3. Complying with local laws and law enforcement in each jurisdiction in which you 
operate. 
This last one can be a huge headache for multinationals, particularly in Europe, where the 
General Data Protection Regulation, effective May 2018, carries with it fines for violations of 
up to 4 per cent of global turnover or 20 million euros (whichever is larger). The EU will hold 
accountable even companies headquartered outside of Europe if they collect or process data 
of sufficient numbers of EU residents. 
Regardless of legal risk, you risk reputational damage if society perceives you as handling 
personal data inappropriately. 

Personal data 
When we talk about personal data, we often use the term personally identifiable information 
(PII), which, in broad terms, is data that is unique to an individual. A passport or driver’s 
license number is PII, but a person’s age, ethnicity or medical condition is not. There is no 
clear definition of PII. The IP address of the browser used to visit a website is considered PII 
in some but not all legal jurisdictions. 
There is increased awareness that identities can be determined from non-PII data using data 
science techniques, and hence we speak of ‘quasi-identifiers’, which are not PII but can be 
made to function like PII. You’ll need to safeguard these as well, as we’ll see in the Netflix 
example below. 

Identify all PII and quasi-identifiers that you process and store. Establish internal policies for 
monitoring and controlling access to them. Your control over this data will facilitate 
compliance with current and future government regulations, as well as some third-party 
services which will refuse to process PII. 
PII becomes sensitive when it is linked to private information. For example, a database with 
the names and addresses of town residents is full of PII but is usually public data. A database 
of medical conditions (not PII) must be protected when the database can be linked to PII. 
Jurisdictions differ in their laws governing what personal data must be protected (health 
records, ethnicity, religion, etc.). These laws are often rooted in historic events within each 
region. 