Your own product 

You need to truly understand your own service and product offerings when evaluating your 
strategy. You may not understand them as well as you think, and your customers may 
perceive them in completely different ways than you’d expect. What is working and what is 
not working? How are customers responding to your products? Where are you losing money 
through inefficiencies? 

If your web offering is a significant part of your business, find out what is working there and 
work to make it better. Create and track micro-conversions to see how your items are 
performing even before a purchase is made. These provide valuable insights even if they are 
not part of a funnel analysis. 

Track the customer engagement with your other digital offerings. 
 What is the applause rate on your social media? (How many times are your tweets 
liked or retweeted? How many comments on your Facebook posts?) 
 How many people download your material? 
 How many people sign up for your newsletter? 

Test changes in your products by running A/B tests, which you’ll do in the following way: 
1. Propose one small change that you think may improve your offering. Change one frame, 
one phrase, or one banner. Check with your development team to make sure it’s an easy 
change. 
2. Decide what key performance indicators (KPI) you most want to increase: revenue, 
purchases, up-sells, time onsite, etc. Monitor the impact on other KPIs. 
3. Run the original and the changed version (A and B) simultaneously. For websites, use an 
A/B tool such as Optimizely. View the results using the tool or place the test version ID 
in web tags and analyse specifics of each version, such as by comparing lengths of path 
to conversion. 
4. Check if results are statistically significant using a two-sample hypothesis test. Have an 
analyst do this or use an on-line calculator such as https://abtestguide.com/calc/. 
5. Use your big data system for deeper analysis: 

a. Were there significant changes in customer journey, such as number of categories 
viewed or filters selected? 
b. Are there key product or customer segments you should manage differently? 
c. Did specific external events influence results? 
d. Did KPIs move in different directions? 