Centralized key management has been a security best practice for many years even in big 
data environments, especially those with wide geographical distribution. Best practices 
include policy-driven automation, logging, on-demand key delivery, and abstracting key 
management from key usage. 
 
User access control may be the most basic network security tool, but many companies 
practice minimal control because the management overhead can be so high. This is dangerous 
at both the network level, as well as on the big data platform. Strong user access control 
requires a policy-based approach that automates access based on user and role-based 
settings. Policy driven automation manages complex user control levels, such as multiple 
administrator settings that protect the big data platform against inside attack. 
Controlling who has root access to Business Intelligence tools and analytics platforms is 
another key to protecting your data. By developing a tiered access system, the opportunities 
for an attack can be reduced. 

Intrusion detection and prevention systems are security pillars equally so to the big data 
platform. Big data’s value and distributed architecture naturally lends itself to intrusion 
attempts. Intrusion Prevention Systems (IPS) enable security administrators to protect the big 
data platform from intrusion. However, should an intrusion succeed despite the IPS, Intrusion 
Detection Systems (IDS) quarantine the intrusion before it does significant damage. 
Physical Security must not be ignored. Physical security should be deploying when the big 
data platform in the data centre is being built. If your data centre is cloud based carefully do 
due diligence to the cloud provider’s data centre security. Physical security systems serve an 
important role in that they can deny data centre access to both strangers, or to staff members 
who should not have access to sensitive areas. Video surveillance and security logs will also 
serve the same purpose. 