2.4 IoT Architectures 
According to Bilal (2018), the term Internet of Things (IoT) a is expressed through a simple 
formula such as: - IoT= Services+ Data+ Networks + Sensors. These basic building blocks of an 
IoT system are illustrated in Figure 7 below, and each of these elements are discussed 
thereafter: 
 
Figure 6: IoT Architecture 
 (Source: Grizhnevich, 2018) 

‘A “smart” object is equipped with sensors that gather data on the action to be taken which 
is transferred over a network and actuators that allow things to act. This concept includes 
fridges, street lamps, buildings, vehicles, production machinery, rehabilitation equipment and 
all other smart devices. These sensors may not necessarily be physically attached to the object 
but be located the closest environment of the object in order to monitor it. The actions that 
require to be taken could include switching on or off a light; opening or closing a door, 
increase or decrease engine rotation speed… The IoT four key technological enablers are, for:  
- tagging - RFID technology  
- sensing - sensor technology  
- thinking - smart technology  
- shrinking - Nanotechnology  
is used (Bilal, 2018) 
The gateway provides connectivity between the object and the cloud part of the IoT solution, 
to enables data pre-processing and filtering before moving it to the cloud (to reduce the 
volume of data for detailed processing and storing) and transmits control commands going 
from the cloud to things. The objects then execute commands using their actuators. The 
advantage of adopting a cloud gateway is that it ensures compatibility with various protocols 
and communicates with field gateways using different protocols depending on what protocol 
is supported by the relevant gateway. 
A data lake is used for storing the data generated by connected devices in its original format. 
This data that is generated in "batches" or in “streams” in a large in volume, therefore 
commonly referred to as “Big data”. When specific data is needed for analysis it is extracted 
from the data lake and loaded to a big data warehouse, where it is filtered cleaned, structured 
and matched. 
Data analysts use data from the big data warehouse, visualized in schemes, diagrams, or 
infographics, to find trends and decide what actions to implement or understating the 
correlations and patterns to create more suitable algorithms for control applications. 
To create more precise and more efficient models for control applications, machine learning 
is often adopted. Models are regularly updated based on historical data accumulated in the 
big data warehouse. 