Ask the business experts to describe where they would like to be in three years. They may be 
able to describe this in terms of data and analytics, or they may simply describe this in terms 
of envisioned product offerings and business results. A part of this vision should be features 
and capabilities of competitors that they would like to see incorporated into their offerings. 
Analytics input: By now your business objectives, principles, and strategic goals should be 
completely laid out (and ideally written up in common view for discussion). At this point, your 
analytics expert should work through the list and identify which of those business objectives 
can be matched to standard analytic tools or models that may bring business value in relieving 
a pain point, raising a KPI, or providing an innovative improvement. It’s beneficial to have 
cross-industry insight into how companies in other industries have benefited from similar 
analytic projects. 
To illustrate this process, a statistical model may be proposed to solve forecasting inaccuracy, 
a graph-based recommendation engine may be proposed to increase conversion rates or 
shorten purchase-path length, a natural language processing tool may provide near-real-time 
social media analysis to measure sentiment following a major advertising campaign, or a 
streaming analytics framework combined with a statistical or machine learning tool may be 
used for real-time customer analytics related to fraud prevention, mitigation of cart 
abandonment, etc. 
Technical input: If IT is represented in your kick-off meeting, they will be contributing 
throughout the discussion, highlighting technical limitations and opportunities. They should 
be particularly involved during the analytics phase, providing the initial data input and taking 
responsibility for eventual deployment of analytics solutions. If your technical experts are not 
present during the initial project kick-off, you’ll need a second meeting to verify feasibility 
and get their buy-in. 