Customer support 
Consider recording and analysing all interactions with sales agents and customer support: 
phone calls, online chats, emails and even videos of customers in stores. Most of this data is 
easy to review in pieces, but difficult to analyse at scale without advanced tools. As you store 
these interactions, your customer support agents should enrich them with additional 
information, such as customer ID and time of day’, and label them with meaningful categories, 
such as ‘order enquiry’, ‘new purchase’, ‘cancellation’ or ‘complaint.’ You can then save the 
entire data file in a big data storage system (such as MongoDB or HDFS). We’ll show valuable 
ways to use this data later in this chapter. 

Physical movements 
You have a choice of several technologies for monitoring how your customers are moving 
within your stores. In addition to traditional video cameras and break-beam lasers across 
entrances, there are technologies that track the movement of smartphones based on cellular, 
Bluetooth or Wi-Fi interactions. Specialized firms such as ShopperTrak and Walkbase work in 
these areas. Such monitoring will help you understand the browsing patterns of your 
customers, such as what categories are considered by the same customers and how much 
time is spent before a purchase decision. It will help you direct your register and support staff 
where needed. Again, this data is valuable even if the customer is kept anonymous. 
When a customer arrives at the register and makes a purchase, possibly with a card that is 
linked to that customer, you will be able to see not only what is being purchased, but also 
what other areas of the store were browsed. You might use this information in future 
marketing or you might use it to redesign your store layout if you realize that the current 
layout is hampering cross-sell opportunities. 
These are just a few examples. In general, start collecting and storing as much detail as 
possible, making sure to consider business value, to respect customer privacy and to comply 
with local laws in your collection, storage and use of this data. Be careful not to cross the line 
between ‘helpful’ and ‘creepy’. Keep your customers’ best interests in mind and assume any 
techniques you use will become public knowledge. 