Figure 13: Big Data Storage Architecture 
(Source Rouse, 2017) 
For example, as summarised in Figure 13 above, an enterprise resource planning systems 
might be attached to a dedicated storage area network (SAN). Meanwhile, the clustered 
network-attached storage (NAS) supports transactional databases and corporate sales data, 
while a private cloud handles on-premises archiving. 
It's not uncommon for larger organizations to have multiple SAN and NAS environments that 
support discrete workloads. Each enterprise storage silo may contain pieces of data that 
pertain to your big data project. 

Big data can bring an organization a competitive advantage from large-scale statistical 
analysis of the data or its metadata. In a big data environment, the analytics mostly operate 
on a defined set of data, using a series of data mining-based predictive modelling forecasts to 
gauge customer behaviours or the likelihood of future events. 

3.2 Big Data Security  
Big Data security is the processing of guarding data and analytics processes, irrespective of 
where it is housed, from any vulnerabilities that could compromise 
their confidentiality (Taylor, 2017). Concerns surrounding the storage, 
management, transmission, mining, and analysing of data are also a key 
concern with Big Data (Digital Guardian, 2017). 

Security Risks in Big Data 
 
These security issues related to Big Data are briefly discussed 
below: 
Since Big Data relies heavily on the cloud, many enterprises fear the sense of loss of control 
over data that comes with utilizing cloud storage providers and third-party data management 
and analytics solutions. The impact of this is significant, as many regulations hold enterprises 
accountable for the security of data that may not be in their direct control. 
Furthermore third-party applications of unknown lineage, can easily introduce risks into 
enterprise networks when their security measures are not equivalent to the same standards 
as established enterprise protocols and data governance policies of the enterprise. 
 
Devices introduce yet another layer of big data security concerns, with workers embracing 
mobility and taking advantage of the cloud to work anywhere, at any time. With BYOD, a 
multitude of devices may be used to connect to the enterprise network and handle data at 
any time, so effective big data security for business must address endpoint security with this 
in mind. 