Critical intervention 
Apply both basic analysis and advanced machine learning to your customer data and you’ll 
likely find ways to decrease churn and increase sales. Basic analysis of where and when your 
customers are active will help you with scheduling the shifts and skill sets of your support 
personnel. It will also signal what the customer is likely to do next (a customer visiting your 
appliance store twice last week may be preparing for a significant purchase). 
With a bit more analysis, you’ll start detecting subtle but important signals. A European 
telecommunications company recently analysed data on customers cancelling their 
subscriptions and found that a large number followed the same three or four steps prior to 
cancellation, such as reviewing their contract online, then phoning customer support, then 
disputing a bill in person and then cancelling the contract. By linking those events, the 
company identified signals of impending churn so it could take action. 
At an even more advanced level, machine learning techniques could detect pending account 
cancellation or the likelihood of a sale based on an analysis of text, audio or video. Such a 
system might be a significant investment of your time and resources, but you might have the 
business case to justify it, or you might find a vendor who has already developed a technology 
suitable for your application, as illustrated in the next case study. 

Your competitors 
It’s especially challenging to get good information about your competitors. Information 
brokers such as Nielsen, Comscore and SimilarWeb will sell their estimations of traffic to your 
competitors’ sites and apps, possibly including referrer information. 
The website trends.google.com gives charts for the number of searches for specific terms, which 
in turn give indications of how you compare with your competitors for brand search 
(see Figure ). 
 
Figure Searches in Brazil for ‘McDonalds’ (top line) vs ‘Burger King’ (bottom line) Q2, 
2017 (Google Trends). You’ll be able to get information on competitor inventory, services 
and physical locations by scraping websites. Your technology team can help with this (you can use a tool such as Selenium). 
If you are competing on price, you’ll want to adjust your pricing based on your competition’s proximity 
to your customers. For physical locations, that will be based on address and transportation 
routes. For online sales, that will be partially influenced by the referrer sending a visitor to 
your site. Customers arriving from price comparison sites should be considered price-
conscious and at high risk of buying from your competitors. 

Work to increase your share of wallet, the percentage of a customer’s spend that goes to your 
business rather than to competitors’. Start by using the detailed customer data you have 
collected and see what categories and what specific products are typically purchased by the 
same customer segments. You’ll be able to see which customers are already making those 
cross-purchases, which are browsing but not purchasing, and which are active in only one 
category. 

Identify the products your customers are purchasing elsewhere to see where you are losing 
share of wallet. If you sell groceries and your customer only buys fruits and vegetables, you’ll 
know they are buying milk and eggs elsewhere. If you sell electronics and they only buy 
smartphones, you’ll know they are buying computers elsewhere. This will help identify areas 
where you need to compete harder. By using the customer segments you’ve created, you’ll 
see if your competition is appealing more to quality-conscious customers, marketing-reactive 
customers, high-spenders, etc. 