Control applications are responsible for sending automatic commands and alerts to 
actuators, for example: 

 Windows of a smart home can receive an automatic command to open or close depending 
on the forecasts taken from the weather service. 
 When sensors show that the soil is dry, watering systems get an automatic command to 
water plants. 
 Sensors help monitor the state of industrial equipment, and in case of a pre-failure 
situation, an IoT system generates and sends automatic notifications to field engineers. 
 
The commands sent by control applications to actuators can be also additionally stored in a 
big data warehouse to help investigate problematic cases. 
User applications are the software component of an IoT system which connects IoT users to 
the devices and gives them the option to monitor and control their smart object through a 
mobile phone or web application’ (Grizhnevich, 2018). 
A simple example of “smart” outside lighting system, as a part of a “smart home”, is described 
in Figure 7, below. 
 
Figure 7: IoT architecture example – Intelligent lighting  
(Source: Grizhnevich, 2018) 
 
Different architectures have been proposed as there is no single consensus on architecture 
for IoTs. The most basic architecture is a three-layer architecture [3–5] as shown in Figure 8.  

Figure 8: 3 Layer Architecture of IoTs  
(Source: Sethi & Sarangi, 2017) 
 
The perception layer is the physical layer, which has sensors for sensing and gathering 
parameters about the environment, or identifies other smart objects in the environment. 
The network layer is responsible for connecting to other smart things, network devices, and 
servers, and is also used for transmitting and processing sensor data. 
The application layer is responsible for delivering application specific services to the user. An 
extension of the three-layer architecture is the five-layer architecture, which additionally 
includes the processing and business layers as depicted in Figure 9 below.

Figure  9: 5 Layer Architecture of IoTs  
(Source: Sethi & Sarangi, 2017) 

The transport layer transfers the sensor data from the perception layer to the processing 
layer and vice versa through networks such as wireless, 3G, LAN, Bluetooth, RFID, and NFC. 
The processing layer stores, analyses, and processes huge amounts of data that come from 
the transport layer through various technologies such as databases, cloud computing, and big 
data processing. The business layer manages the whole IoT system, including applications, 
business and profit models, and users’ privacy.  
Another architecture proposed by Ning and Wang in Figure 10 below is inspired by the layers 
of processing in the human brain. It is inspired by the intelligence and ability of human beings 
to think, feel, remember, make decisions, and react to the physical environment. It is 
constituted of three parts. First is the human brain, which is analogous to the processing and 
data management unit or the data centre. Second is the spinal cord, which is analogous to 
the distributed network of data processing nodes and smart gateways. Third is the network 
of nerves, which correspond to the networking components and sensors. 


Figure 10: 5 Layer Architecture of IoTs  
(Source: Ning & Wang, 2011) 