Hadoop has two major layers and two other supporting modules, with five building blocks 
inside the Hadoop Architecture. Each of these building blocks is briefly explained below: 
Hadoop Common is a collection of Java libraries and utilities that are required by/common 
for other Hadoop modules, which contain all the necessary Java files and scripts required to 
start Hadoop.  
Hadoop Yet Another Resource Navigator (YARN) framework is a Resource Manager basically 
used for job scheduling and efficient cluster resource management It takes the responsibility 
of providing the computational resource (e.g., CPU storage memory devices, etc.) required 
for application executions. 
Hadoop Distributed File System (HDFS™) is suitable for applications having large data sets 
because it is designed to be deployed on low-cost hardware. HDFS is responsible for providing 
permanent, reliable and distributed storage, with unrestricted, high-speed access to the data 
application. This is typically used for storing Inputs & Outputs. 
Hadoop MapReduce framework is the core and integral part of the Hadoop architecture. It 
efficiently handles large volume datasets by breaking them into multiple datasets and 
assigning them to a cluster of computers to work parallel at same time. 
Storage for big data is designed to collect voluminous data produced at variable speeds by 
multiple sources and in varied formats. Industry experts describe this process as the three Vs: 
the variety, velocity and volume of data. 
Variety describes the different sources and types of data to be mined. Sources include audio 
files, documents, email, file storage, images, log data, social media posts, streaming video and 
user clickstreams. 
Velocity pertains to the speed at which storage is able to ingest big data volumes and run 
analytic operations against it. Volume acknowledges that modern applications scripts are 
large and growing larger, outstripping the storage capabilities of existing legacy storage. 
The key requirements of big data storage are that it can handle large volumes of data and 
keep scaling to keep up with growth, so that it can provide the input/output operations per 
second (IOPS) necessary to deliver data to analytics tools. 
The largest big data practitioners such as Google, Facebook, and Apple, run what are known 
as hyper scale computing environments. 
These comprise vast amounts of commodity servers with direct-attached storage (DAS). 
Redundancy is at the level of the entire compute/storage unit, and if a unit suffers an outage 
of any component it is replaced wholesale, having already failed over to its mirror. 
Statistical big data analysis and modelling is gaining adoption in a cross-section of industries, 
including aerospace, environmental science, energy exploration, financial markets, genomics, 
healthcare and retailing. A big data platform is built for much greater scale, speed and 
performance than traditional enterprise storage. Also, in most cases, big data storage targets 
a much more limited set of workloads on which it operates. 