The description should briefly describe the inputs, methodology and outputs of the MVP, the 
criteria for evaluating the MVP, and the resources required to complete the MVP (typically 
this is only the staff time required, but it might entail additional computing costs and/or third-
party resources). Utilizing cloud resources should eliminate the need for hardware purchases 
for an MVP, and trial software licenses should substitute for licensing costs at this stage. 
Feed this MVP into whichever project management framework you use in your company (e.g. 
scrum or Kanban). Evaluate the results of the MVP to determine the next steps for that 
analytics project. You may move the project through several phases before you finally deploy 
it. These phases might include: 
 several iterations on the MVP to converge on the desired result; 
 further manual application with limited scope; 
 documented and repeatable application; 
 deployed and governed application; and 
 deployed, governed and optimized application 
 with each successive stage requiring incremental budgeting of time, resources and 
technology. 
It’s very important to keep in mind that analytic applications are often a form of Research & 
Development (R&D). Not all good ideas will work. Sometimes this is due to insufficient or 
poor-quality data, sometimes there is simply too much noise in the data, or the process that 
we are examining does not lend itself to standard models. This is why it’s so important to start 
with MVPs, to fail fast, to keep in close contact with business experts and to find projects that 
produce quick wins. We’ll talk more about this in the next chapter when we talk about agile 
analytics.

4.3 Analytics, algorithms and machine learning 
Four types of analytics 
It’s quite possible that your biggest initial wins will be from very basic applications of analytics. 
Analytics can be extremely complex, but it can also be very simple, and the most basic of 
applications are sometimes the most valuable. The preliminary tasks of collecting and 
merging data from multiple sources, cleaning the data and summarizing the results in a 
well-designed table or graph can produce substantial business value, eliminating fatal 
misconceptions and clearly highlighting performance metrics, costs, trends and opportunities. 
Gartner has developed a useful framework for classifying application areas of analytics 
(shown below). Their Analytics Ascendancy Model Figure divides analytic efforts into four 
categories: descriptive, diagnostic, predictive and prescriptive. I find this model to be quite 
useful in discussing analytics. 
 
Models, algorithms and black boxes 
As you move into more advanced analytics, you’ll need to choose analytic models. Models are 
sets of formulas that approximately describe events and interactions around us. We apply 
models using algorithms, which are sequences of actions that we instruct a computer to 
follow, like a recipe. As you employ an analytic model to solve your business problem (such 
as predicting customer churn or recommending a product), you’ll need to follow three steps: 
1. Design the model; 
2. Fit the model to the data (also known as ‘training’ or ‘calibrating’ the model); and 
3. Deploy the model. 

Artificial intelligence and machine learning  
Analytic software   
Programming languages  
Analytic tools Agile analytics 
