5.2 The Best Tools for Internet of Things (IoT) Development 
 
The Internet of Things is penetrating every aspect of our daily life. IoT phenomenon is already 
around us: it is made up of the ordinary objects we use at home, at work or in the streets. The 
difference is that all these objects and devices are computerized. 
They have embedded network connectivity, can communicate with phones and 
other gadgets, get information and remain under control.   

IoT devices can be absolutely anything and anywhere: door locks, plugs, lights, 
appliances, vehicles, wearables and other incredible options. Besides, IoT 
technologies extend not only to cyber-physical systems for domestic use but to 
industrial facilities as well. Two more concepts have been developed: Building Internet of 
Things (BIoT) and Industrial Internet of Things (IIoT). Such a staggering pace of IoT growth is 
possible due to the proliferation of wireless networks, cloud computing, M2M connectivity 
and software-defined networking development. 

As the IoT trend morphs into an industry, the need for reliable, comprehensive developer 
toolkits is increasing. IoT developer toolkits provide teams with the tools they need to access 
specific networks, test hardware responses to application changes and manage updates. The 
driving force behind the Internet of Things projects is more accessible hardware and more 
flexible programming languages. 

Tools for the Internet of Things (IoT) Development 
 
IoT development generally requires the management of both an actuator and an endpoint. 
The actuator monitors the connected device, searching for a specific value that energizes the 
endpoint into action. This may be a connected home environment system that allows the user 
to monitor the temperature of the home and adjust the thermostat settings remotely, or it 
could be a security system that tracks movements within a building and alerts specified users 
of changes.

Developing applications for connected devices generally requires that the solution provide 
the following: 

 Endpoint authentication 
 Session creation 
 Session destruction and logout 
 User accounts and management 
 Individual user billing details as needed 
 User recent API activity 
 Individual device data plan details 
 Individual device details 
 Device claiming and activation 
 Device ordering 
 Incoming and outgoing SMS management 

IoT solutions distinguish mainstream technology companies from those on the leading edge. 
Even companies that operate primarily outside of the tech sector will see benefits in terms of 
marketplace recognition and brand identity when successful smart initiatives are launched. 
Connecting with the right talent is necessary to creating valuable solutions that fill this market 
need. 