Using the data 
Much of your customer data will be useful even in the aggregate and anonymized format 
provided by your standard web analytics tool. You’ll see how many customers came at any 
hour of the day as well as useful information such as average time spent onsite, number of 
pages viewed, how many entered at each page or from each marketing campaign, etc. You’ll 
also see the total transactions made by customer segments, such as geography and 
acquisition source. This will give you a picture of how and when your products are being used, 
particularly when matched against marketing campaigns, holidays, service downtimes and 
new initiatives. 

Customer journey 
The big data insights get much more useful when you use data to build an understanding of 
the intents, preferences and habits of your customers. You should already be segmenting your 
customers into personas based on static features such as home address, gender, language, 
age and possibly income level. Note that Google Analytics can provide useful demographic 
information (from their DoubleClick cookie) if you enable this functionality. 
Broaden your segmentation criteria to include customer journey data, such as those listed 
below. 

What filters do they most often use? Is it Price high-to-low?  
Price low-to-high? Highest rated item? Newest product? Customers sorting price low-to-high 
are probably price conscious. Those sorting price high-to-low or by highest rating are probably 
quality conscious. Those sorting newest first may be quality conscious or perhaps 
technophiles or early adopters. Those sorting by rating may be late adopters or quality 
conscious. All of this will impact how you interact with them. If a customer is quality conscious 
but not price conscious, you should present them with high-quality products in search results 
and marketing emails, and you should not be presenting them with clearance sales of entry-
level products. You’ll want to interact with the price-conscious customer segments in exactly 
the opposite way. 

How many items do they typically consider before making a purchase?  
This information will help you decide when to intervene in the shopping process, such as by 
offering a discount when a customer is about to leave without making a purchase. 
What categories do they visit most often?  
This will help you segment the customer and return the most relevant results for ambiguous 
search phrases (such as ‘jaguar’ the car vs ‘jaguar’ the animal or Panama City, Florida vs 
Panama City, Panama). You’ll also use this information to guide which items you market to 
the customer.