Healthcare & fitness 
 
Multiple wearable devices that monitor heart rate, calorie intake, sleep, track activity, and 
other metrics to help us stay healthy have flooded the IoT market recently. These health and 
fitness devices have been made available by Apple, Samsung, Jawbone, and Misfit, to name a 
few wearables that represent IoT use. 
In some cases, these wearable devices can communicate with third-party applications and 
share information about the user’s chronic conditions with a healthcare provider. 
In addition to the personal use of health wearable devices, there are some advanced smart 
appliances, including scales, thermometers, blood pressure monitors, and even hair brushes. 
Smart medication dispensers, are also widely used for home treatment and elderly care. The 
appliance allows you to load the prescribed pills and monitor the intake. The mobile 
application paired with the device sends timely alerts to the family members or caregivers to 
inform them when the medicine is taken, or skipped. It also provides useful data on the 
medication intake and sends notifications when your medication is running low. 

opening/closing the doors, engine metrics, 
the alarm system, detecting the car’s location and routes, etc. 
While connected or even self-driven cars have already become a reality, automotive IoT is expanding to other types of ground 
transport, including railway transport.  

Agriculture 
 
Smart farming although commonly ignored has grown to include many innovative products 
toward progressive farmers. Some of these “smart products” include a distributed network 
of smart sensors to monitor various natural conditions, such as humidity, air temperature, 
and soil quality. Other products are used to automate irrigation systems. An example of an 
IoT agriculture device is a smart watering system that uses real-time weather data and 
forecasts to create an optimal watering schedule for the agricultural area. A smart Bluetooth-
powered controller and a mobile application are used to control the system, making it easy 
to install, setup, and manage, as is shown in Figure 5 below. 
 
Figure 5: A drone used to collect data about the crops  
(Source: Levy, 2017) 
 
The concept for the Smart car started in the early 1970’s. Mercedes-Benz engineer 
Johann Tomforde began to explore city car concepts and designs. He created the first 
concept sketch, but it wasn’t until the 1990’s that Mercedes assembled a team to start the 
design process. 

Logistics 
 
Freight, fleet management, and shipping represent another promising area of use for IoT. 
With smart tags or sensors, attached to the parcels or items being transported, customers 
can track their location, speed, and even transportation or storage conditions. 
