The kick-off meeting 
 
Once you’ve selected your programme team, plan a programme kick-off meeting to lay the strategic 
foundation for the analytics initiative, sketching the framework for business applications, 
brainstorming ideas, and assigning follow-on steps, which will themselves lead to initial scoping 
efforts. The four skill sets represented in the programme team should all be present if possible, 
although the business expert may cover the strategic input and it is also possible (but not ideal) to 
postpone technology input until the scoping stage. 
 
Also helpful at this stage is to have detailed financial statements at hand. These figures will help focus 
the discussion on areas with the most influence on your financials. Bring your standard reports and 
dashboards, particularly those that include your key performance indicators (KPIs). 
 
Strategic input: Start the kick-off meeting by reviewing the purpose and principles that govern 
your efforts. Continue by reviewing the strategic goals of the company, distinguishing 
between the long- and short-term strategic goals. Since some analytics projects will take 
significant time to develop and deploy, it’s important to distinguish the time-lines of the 
strategic goals. If there is no executive or strategic stakeholder involved in the process, the 
team members present should have access to documentation detailing corporate strategy. If 
there is no such strategic documentation (as is, sadly, sometimes the case), continue the 
brainstorming using an assumed strategy of plucking low-hanging fruit with low initial 
investment, low likelihood of internal resistance and relatively high ROI. 
Business input: After reviewing the principles and strategy, review the KPIs used within the 
organization. In addition to the standard financial KPIs, a company may track any number of 
metrics. Marketing will track click-through rate, customer lifetime value, conversion rates, 
organic traffic, etc. Human resources may track attrition rates, acceptance rates, 
absenteeism, tenure, regretted attrition, etc. Finance will typically track financial lead 
indicators, often related to traffic (visits, visitors, searches) as well as third-party data. 
At this stage, probe more deeply into why certain KPIs are important and highlight the KPIs 
that tie in most closely with your strategic and financial goals. Identify which KPIs you should 
most focus on improving. 

The business experts should then describe known pain points within the organization. These 
could come from within any department and could be strategic, such as limited insight into 
competition or customer segments; tactical, such as difficulty setting optimal product prices, 
integrating data from recent acquisitions or allocating marketing spend; or operational, such 
as high fraud rates or slow delivery times. 
