2.3 IoT Applications 
 
The proper use of IoT technologies in businesses can reduce overall operating costs, help 
increase business efficiency, and create additional revenue streams through new markets and 
products to enhance their competitive advantage. Some common applications for IoTs are 
described below.  

Retail and supply chain management 
 
The leaders in “smart” operations are the retail and supply chain industry. This is not limited 
to the use of IoT devices and applications for shopping and supply chain management. 
Restaurants, hospitality providers, and other businesses have also adopted IoTs to manage 
their supplies and gather valuable insights like avoiding over-ordering, effectively restricting 
staff members who abuse their privileges, as well as better management of logistical and 
merchandising expenses. 
 
Examples of IoTs in the retail and supply chain industry include: 
 Proximity-based advertising with Beacons chocolates 
 Smart inventory management technologies used at Amazon Go checkout store 
 Queue Hop is an innovative inventory tracking and theft prevention IoT solution. 
Smart tags are attached to the items on sale, which unclip automatically only after the 
payment is made. 
 The system speeds up the checkout process by offering mobile self-service capabilities 
and allows business owners to manage their inventory in real time. 
 As a result, this technology has the potential of disrupting the whole shopping process, 
by allowing business owners to reallocate resources for better efficiency and 
improved customer service. 

Home automation 
 
It is impossible to ignore the impact that IoT technologies have had on our homes. Smart 
appliances, lighting, security, and environment controls, as illustrated in Figure 
4 below, make our life easier and more 
convenient.  
 
Smart homes that are equipped with smart thermostats, smart appliances and connected 
heating, lighting and electronic devices can be controlled remotely via computers, 
smartphones or other mobile devices (Rouse, 2019). 

Figure 4: Smart Home  
(Source: Timokhina, 2017) 

As illustrated in Figure 4 above, 
 Indoor cameras, and alarms, help you better manage your home.  
 The thermostat learns about your preferences and automatically adjusts the 
temperature. In addition to a comfortable environment at home, it will help you save 
on heating and use your energy more efficiently.  
 Cameras together with smoke and CO2 alarms make your home a safer place.  
 You can monitor and manage all of these devices with your smartphone using a 
dedicated application.