Chapter 4: Big Data Strategies and Legal Compliance 
 
4.1 How big data can help guide your strategy 
As you evaluate your company’s strategy, perhaps even considering a strategic pivot, you’ll 
want to gather and utilize all available data to build a deep understanding of your customers, 
your competitors, the external factors that impact you and even your own product. The big 
data ecosystem will play an important role in this process, enabling insights and guiding 
actions in ways not previously possible. 
Your customers 
Customer data is one of your most important assets. There is more data available today than 
ever before, and it can tell you much more than you’d expect about your customers and 
potential customers: who they are, what motivates them, what they prefer and what their 
habits are. The more data you collect, the more complete your customer picture will become, 
so make it your goal to collect as much data as possible, from as many sources as possible. 
Getting the data 
Start by identifying all customer interaction points: 
 Visits to your digital platforms: websites, apps and kiosks’. 
 Interactions with customer support: phone, email, online chat, etc. 
 Social media, including direct messaging, tweets, and posts on accounts you own or 
they own’. 
 Records of physical movement, including store videos and movement logs. There are 
several technologies for monitoring movement, including embedded sensors, Wi-Fi, 
Bluetooth, beacons, and even light frequencies in combination with smartphone apps. 
 In some industries, you will have access to additional (non-geo) sensor data from 
sensors, RFID tags, personal fitness trackers, etc., which may provide data such as bio-
medical readings, accelerometer data, external temperature, etc. 
For each interaction point, make an inventory of: 
 what data you can possibly collect; 

For many organizations, the interaction points will consist of physical and web stores, Apple 
(iOS) and Android apps, social media channels, and staff servicing customers in stores, call 
centres, online chat and social media. I’ll illustrate with a few examples. 
 