Building a strong firewall is another useful big data security tool. Firewalls are effective at 
filtering traffic that both enters and leaves servers. Organizations can prevent attacks before 
they happen by creating strong filters that avoid any third parties or unknown data sources. 
Essentially, big data security requires a multi-faceted approach. When it comes to enterprises 
handling vast amounts of data, both proprietary and obtained via third-party sources, big data 
security risks become a real concern. 
 
A comprehensive, multi-faceted approach to big data security encompasses: 
 Visibility of all data access and interactions 
 Data classification 
 Data event correlation 
 Application control 
 Device control and encryption 
 Web application and cloud storage control 
 Trusted network awareness 
 Access and privileged user control 
 
As illustrated in Figure 14, below, Taylor (2017), has summarised the essential areas of 
security required for big data, that is, to: 
 keep out unauthorized users  
 identify intrusions with firewalls 
 implement strong user authentication 
 hold regular end-user training 
 integrate intrusion protection systems (IPS) and intrusion detection systems (IDS) 
 enforce encryption of your data in-transit and at-rest. 
Thus big data security environments must operate during three data stages. These are 1) data 
ingress (what data is coming in), 2) stored data (what data is stored), and 3) data output (what 
data is going out to applications and reports) (Taylor, 2017). 
 
 
Figure 14: Big Data - Areas of Security 

(Source: Taylor, 2017) 
Many enterprises have slowly accumulated a series of point solutions, each addressing a 
single component of the full big data security picture. While this approach can address 
standalone security concerns, the best approach to big data security integrates these 
capabilities into a unified system capable of sharing and correlating security alerts, threat 
intelligence, and other activity in real time – an approach not unlike the vast and dynamic 
concept of big data itself. 