Chapter 3: Big Data Storage and Security 
 
3.1 Big Data Storage 
Big data storage is a storage infrastructure designed specifically to store, manage and retrieve 
very large amounts of data and enables real-time data analytics. Big data storage enables the 
storage and sorting of big data in such a way that it can easily be accessed, used and processed 
by both applications and services working on big data.  
Companies apply big data analytics to get greater intelligence from metadata. In most cases, 
big data storage uses low-cost hard disk drives, or hybrids mixing disk and flash storage. 
Although a specific volume size or capacity is not formally defined, big data storage usually 
refers to volumes that grow exponentially to terabyte or petabyte scale. Thus, big data 
storage is also able to flexibly scale as required. 
A big data storage system clusters a large number of commodity servers attached to high-
capacity disk to support analytic software written to crunch vast quantities of data. The 
system relies on massively parallel processing databases to analyse data ingested from a 
variety of sources. 

Interesting facts about HADOOP: 
#1 Can be easily controlled 
#2 Debugs simply 
#3 Analyzes high scale data 
#4 Combines voluminous Data 
#5 Transfers Data to HDFS form 
 #6 Data Compression in HDFS 
# 7 Transformation in Hadoop 

HADOOP 
The data itself in big data is unstructured because it typically comes from various sources, 
which means mostly file-based and object storage is required. The Apache Hadoop 
Distributed File System (HDFS) is the most prevalent analytics engine for big data, and is 
typically combined with some features of a NoSQL database. 
 
Figure 11: Hadoop Services  
(Source: Beyond Corner, 2018)
 
Hadoop is open source software written in the Java programming language. HDFS spreads the 
data analytics across hundreds or even thousands of server nodes without impacting on 
performance. Through its MapReduce component (as depicted in Figure 11 above), Hadoop 
distributes processing thus acting as a safeguard against catastrophic failure. The multiple 
nodes serve as a platform for data analysis at a network's edge. When a query arrives, 
MapReduce executes processing directly on the storage node on which the data resides. Once 
analysis is completed, MapReduce gathers the collective results from each server and 
“reduces” them to present a single cohesive response. 

Figure 12: Hadoop Architecture  
(Source: Beyond Corner, 2018) 