Chapter 5: IoT technologies and Standards 
 
A huge ecosystem of connected devices, named the Internet of Things, has been expanding 
over the globe for the last two decades. Now, the overwhelming number of objects around 
us are enabled to collect, process and send data to other objects, applications or servers. They 
span numerous industries and use cases, including manufacturing, medicine, automotive, 
security systems, transportation and more. 
The IoT system can function and transfer information in the online mode only when devices 
are safely connected to a communication network. 

What makes such a connection possible? The invisible language allowing physical objects to 
“talk” to each other consists of IoT standards and protocols. General protocols used for 
personal computers, smartphones or tablets may not suit specific requirements (bandwidth, 
range, power consumption) of IoT-based solutions. That is why multiple IoT network 
protocols have been developed and new ones are still evolving. 
There is a multitude of great choices for connectivity options at the engineers’ disposal. This 
article explains complicated abbreviations and helps you make sense of the Internet of 
Things standards. 

5.1 IoT Protocols Background 
The first devices connected to the global net appeared in 1982. It was a Coca-Cola vending 
machine that could control the temperature of the machine and keep track of the number of 
bottles in it. The term “Internet of Things” is considered to be formulated in 1999 by Kevin 
Ashton, an RFID technology researcher. 

In the 1990s, all IoT-related activities came down to theoretical concepts, discussions and 
individual ideas. The 2000s and 2010s was a period of rapid development when IoT projects 
began to succeed and found certain practical applications. Multiple small and large projects 
were created, from intelligent lamps and fitness trackers to self-driving cars and smart cities. 
This was made possible because of the emergence of wireless connections that could transfer 
information over a long distance and the increased bandwidth of Internet communications. 
The IoT grew to a completely “different Internet,” so that not all existing protocols were able 
to satisfy its needs and provide seamless connectivity. That’s why it became a vital necessity 
to create specialized IoT communication protocols and standards. However, some existing 
technologies (e.g. HTTP) are also used by the Internet of Things. 
 