Do they change the shipping option to save fees?  
Again, a signal of price-conscious customers. 
Do they read customer reviews?  
Do they write reviews? If they always read reviews, don’t present them with poorly reviewed 
items in your marketing emails, search results, or cross-sell frames. If they often write 
reviews, or if they own social media accounts with an unusually high number of followers, 
make sure they get ‘golden glove’ customer support. 
What types of marketing do they best respond to? 

Do they open newsletters? Do they respond to flash sales? Don’t fill their inbox with 
marketing they never respond to. Give them the most relevant media and you’ll increase the 
odds they respond rather than clicking ‘unsubscribe’. 
If they are active on social media, what are the topics and hashtags they most frequently 
mention?  
Can you use this knowledge to market more effectively to them? Here again, you are building 
customer personas with all relevant information. Try to get connected to their social media 
accounts. As we mentioned  
Customer segments (personas) 
Using data, you’ve collected, decide what factors are most meaningful in dividing your 
customers into segments (personas). Examples would be ‘price-sensitive males aged 20 to 30’ 
or perhaps ‘high-spending technophiles who make quick purchasing decisions’, or ‘customers 
who browse daily across specific categories but buy only on discount’. You can construct these 
segments in a qualitative way, using the intuition of marketing experts guided by the data, or 
you can construct the segments in a quantitative way, using analytic tools such 
as clustering and principal component analysis. Both are valid methods, but if you have a lot 
of data that can be segmented in many ways, the quantitative approach will probably be more 
effective. 

Inventory 
This customer journey data will give deeper insights into how your inventory impacts 
customer experience. As you consider removing items with low sales, the customer journey 
data may show a high percentage of profitable transactions by customers who found your 
site searching for those non-profitable products. You’ll want to understand more about the 
customer journey of those customers, what they looked for and why they made their 
decisions, before you make the decision to remove products which may have attracted those 
customers to your shop in the first place. 
On the other hand, you may be selling a product that is often showing up in online search 
results but is of no interest to your customers, as demonstrated by your customer journey 
data. In this case, you should either change the display of the product search result, or remove 
the item altogether, as it is taking up valuable search real estate. 

 