Monitor online job boards to get insights into competitors’ initiatives. A significant increase 
in postings for a location or job function will indicate activity in that area. Create watch lists 
of competitor employees’ LinkedIn profiles and monitor them for anomalies in profile 
updates. If an unusually high number of employees are updating their LinkedIn profiles, it may 
signal turmoil or pending layoffs within the company. Similarly, natural language processing 
run on company public statements can uncover unusual activity. This technique has been 
used effectively to signal pending initial public offerings. 

External factors 
Your strategy will be influenced by factors ranging from government regulation to local 
weather. If you are in the travel and tourism industry, regional holidays will impact long-range 
bookings and weather will influence impulse bookings. The price of commodities will 
influence production and transport costs, and exchange rates or political turmoil will 
influence cross-border activity. 
Much of the impact of external factors will be from traditional (small) data, but newer (big) 
data sources will provide additional, valuable signals. Keep an eye on changes in online 
customer activity, which may signal unexpected factors requiring your attention. To illustrate, 
consider how Google Maps and Waze can detect construction or road closures simply by 
studying driver movements. 
To give another example, you may not be aware of the release of an innovative new product 
until you see it in onsite searches or detect the impact in sales of your other products. If you 
are running a hotel chain and have a property in Scranton, Pennsylvania, you may have no 
idea there is a major convention about an obscure topic being planned there during the 
second week in February. If you are prepared with a forecast of booking rates for February, 
you’ll see the unexpected spike in the customer activity in your booking site and call centres 
already in October, before you even know about the February conference. By monitoring 
customer activity, you can act to raise room rates in October before running out of under-
priced February inventory a few weeks later.

To this end, you should construct regular forecasts of key metrics, including number of visits 
and sales projections. You’ll do this by consulting historic figures, projecting growth rates, and 
speaking with your business units to consider anything out of the ordinary (holiday cycles, 
major events, regulatory or economic changes, etc.). These forecasts should be segmented 
down to the levels at which you can steer your operations (such as product and region) and 
should preferably be made at daily granularity. If you automatically monitor these figures at 
daily or weekly granularities you can raise an alert whenever they move above or below 
expected levels, signalling when some external factor is impacting your business in an 
unexpected way. 