2.3.3 How to Generate Alternative Designs 

A common human tendency is to stick with what works, even when a better solution might exist. While 
it's easy to settle for a solution that feels "good enough," doing so can prevent better alternatives from 
being considered, which is an important part of the design process. But where do these alternative ideas 
come from? 
One source is the designer's own creativity and flair (the "genius design" described in Box 2.1). While it's 
true that some individuals have a natural talent for coming up with inspired designs, very few ideas are 
entirely new. Referring to sources of inspiration is a well-known technique for generating ideas in design 
(Eckert and Stacey, 2000). Research by Pao Siangliulue et al. (2015) shows that people exposed to creative 
examples tend to generate more innovative ideas than those presented with random ones. Innovations 
often arise through the cross-fertilization of ideas from various perspectives, people, and contexts, the 
evolution of existing products based on use and observation, or simply copying ideas from similar 
products. 

Cross-fertilization occurs when ideas are presented and discussed within multidisciplinary teams, among 
other designers, or in workshops with a wide range of stakeholders. For instance, consider the evolution 
of the cell phone into the smartphone. Initially, the cell phone's purpose was limited to making calls and 
sending texts, but with time and input from various sources, the smartphone has grown to include 
features such as photography, streaming media, mobile payments, fitness tracking, and much more. 

Creativity and invention are often surrounded by mystery, but research has shed light on the process and 
ways to foster creativity (e.g., Rogers, 2014). For instance, browsing a collection of designs can inspire 
designers to consider alternative perspectives and, in turn, alternative solutions. As Roger Schank (1982) 
pointed out, “An expert is someone who gets reminded of just the right prior experience to help him in 
processing his current experiences.” These experiences don't have to be the designer’s own—they can 
come from others as well.