2.2.2 The Importance of Involving Users 

Chapter 1, "What Is Interaction Design?" emphasized the importance of understanding people and their 
activities when designing interactive products. This involves not only considering users or potential users 
to understand their needs and activities but also testing and evaluating design concepts within their actual 
contexts. Both of these aspects are essential to ensure that the final product is usable and provides a 
positive experience, increasing the likelihood that it will be used. 

In commercial projects, the role of a product owner is common. The product owner’s responsibility is to 
filter user and customer feedback into the development process and prioritize features or requirements. 
Typically, this person has both business and technical knowledge and is frequently involved in assessing 
designs. While they are closely connected with the product and customer needs, they can only offer a 
limited perspective on how the product will be used and cannot predict how customers will respond to a 
particular design in detail. To ensure usability, it’s best to involve potential users throughout all stages of 
development. 
Two other key elements are also critical for ensuring the product is usable and widely adopted: 
expectation management and ownership. 
 
Expectation management refers to ensuring that expectations for the new product are realistic, 
preventing surprises upon its release. If people feel the product has been misrepresented, it can lead to 

resistance or rejection. Managing expectations can be especially difficult with large, complex systems. 
Involving potential users and those affected by the product at various stages of development helps with 
expectation management by allowing them to understand the product’s capabilities early on. They will 
gain a clearer understanding of how the product will support their activities, affect their work and lives, 
and why certain design decisions were made. Providing timely and adequate training is another way to 
manage expectations. Allowing users to view prerelease videos or interact with early prototypes can help 
set realistic expectations for the final product. 

Ownership is another important reason to involve potential users. When users feel they have contributed 
to the development of a product, they are more likely to take ownership and support its use (Bano et al., 
2017). For example, when developing tools for Wikipedia contributors, Angelika Muhlbauer and Kai 
Nissen (2013) found that early involvement of Wikipedia community members led to greater acceptance 
of the innovations. 

Determining how to involve potential users, in what capacities, and for how long requires careful 
planning, as discussed in the next “Dilemma” box.