5.3.6 nslookup Utility 
Whenever you’re conﬁguring a server or a workstation to connect to the Internet, you’ve got to 
start by conﬁguring DNS if you want name resolution to happen (that is, if you want to be able to 
type www.sybex.com instead of an IP address). When conﬁguring DNS, it’s a very good thing to 
be able to test what IP address DNS is returning to ensure that it’s working properly. The nslookup 
utility allows you to query a name server and quickly ﬁnd out which name resolves to which IP 
address. 
 
The nslookup utility comes with Windows 10 as well as with most versions of Unix and Linux. You 
can run it from a Windows command prompt. At the command prompt, you can start the 
nslookup utility by typing nslookup and pressing Enter. When you’re inside this utility, the 
command prompt will change from something similar to a C:\> sign to a shorter > sign. It will also 
display the name and IP address of the default DNS server you will be querying (you can change 
it, if necessary). Then you can start using nslookup. The following output gives you a sample of 
the display after the nslookup command has been entered at the C:\> prompt. 
C:\Users\tlammle>nslookup 
 
Default Server: gnt-corpdc1.globalnet.local 
Address: 10.100.36.12 
> 
 
The primary job of nslookup is to tell you the many diﬀerent features of a particular domain name, 
the names of the servers that serve it, and how they’re conﬁgured. To get that, just type in a 
domain name at the > prompt, and the nslookup utility will then return this information: 
> lammle.com 

Server: dslmodem.domain.actdsltmp 
Address: 192.168.0.1 
The non-authoritative answer is as follows: 
 
Name: lammle.com 
Address: 206.123.114.186 

What this tells you is that the server that returned the information is not responsible 
(authoritative) for the zone information of the domain for which you requested an address and 
that the name server for the domain lammle.com is located at the IP address 206.123.114.186. 
You can also ask nslookup for other information by setting a diﬀerent option within nslookup. Just 
type set option at the > prompt and replace option with the actual option you want to use—for 
example, use >set type=mx to determine the IP address of your email server. If you can’t decide 
which one you want, use the question mark (?) at the greater than sign (>) to see all available 
options. If you type in nslookup and receive this reply, 
then you know your DNS servers are not answering. You need to get over to the DNS server, stat! 
 
Figure 5.19: entire arp output (Lammle, 2022) 
 