3.6.2 Screen Subnet or (DMZ) 
A screened subnet, also known as a demilitarized zone (DMZ), is used to host publicly accessible 
servers like web servers, FTP servers, and email relays. It’s set up using two ﬁrewalls or routers 
conﬁgured as ﬁrewalls, creating a subnet between them. This subnet acts as a buﬀer zone where 
external traﬃc is ﬁltered twice.
 
3.6.3 Separation of Duties 
Separation of duties is a concept that speciﬁes that any operation that is susceptible to fraud or 
abuse by employees should be broken into two tasks, and then these two tasks should be Internet 
Firewall Internal Network Exterior Router DMZ Interior Router FIGURE assigned to diﬀerent 
individuals. 

3.6.4 Network Access Control 
Network Access Control (NAC) is a method of securing network hosts before they’re allowed to 
access the network. Network Access Control systems that control access to devices based on their 
security settings include Cisco’s Network Admission Control (NAC) and Microsoft’s Network Policy 
and Access Services (NPAS). NAC components include posture assessment, guest network, and 
persistent vs non-persistent agents 

When devices attempt to access the network, the devices are examined closely for antimalware 
updates, operating system updates, and Windows registry settings, called posture assessment. 
When a device is attempting to connect to a network using a form of network access control, the 
device is ﬁrst placed in a guest network until a posture assessment is performed. When the 
assessment is complete and is positive, admission is granted. If problems are found, admission 
may be denied and the user notiﬁed that action must be taken, or the device may be directed to 
a remediation server that can install missing updates or quarantine the device if necessary. 
A persistent agent is installed on an NAC client and starts when the operating system loads. This 
agent provides functionality that may not be present in the nonpersistent agent, such as system- 
wide notiﬁcations and alerts, and auto and manual remediation. While nonpersistent agent is 
used to assess the device only during the one-time check-in at login, usually through a captive 
web portal. The nonpersistent or dissolvable agent is removed from the device when the 
authentication web page is closed

