To release your current DHCP TCP/IP information, you must elevate your command prompt or 
you’ll get this warning: 
 
Figure 5.8: ipconﬁg release output (Lammle, 2022) 
 
Should this happen to you, left-click in the search box in the lower-left menu bar, then type in 
command prompt, right-click on the command prompt icon, and choose Run As Administrator. 
(Of course, you’ll have to enter your name and password to do this if you are using Windows 10. 
But we love Windows 10, right? Okay, maybe not always.) Figure 5.9 shows how I did this. Once 
your command prompt has been duly elevated, you can use the ipconﬁg /release command and 
then the ipconﬁg /renew command to get new TCP/IP information for your host. 
 
Figure 5.9: Elevating your command prompt (Lammle, 2022)

5.3.2.2 ifconﬁg Utility 
There is a utility in Linux/Unix/Mac that will give you information similar to what ipconﬁg shows. 
It’s called ifconﬁg (short for interface conﬁguration). Although ipconﬁg and ifconﬁg show similar 
information, there are major diﬀerences between these two utilities. The ipconﬁg utility is mainly 
used to view the TCP/IP conﬁguration for a computer. You can use ifconﬁg to do the same thing, 
but ifconﬁg can also be used to conﬁgure a protocol or a particular network interface. The general 
syntax of the ifconﬁg command is as follows: 
 
Figure 5.10: ifconﬁg command syntax (Lammle, 2022) 
 
The interface parameter equals the Unix name of the interface, such as eth0. If the optional 
address parameter is speciﬁed, the ifconﬁg command sets the IP address for the interface to the 
address you’ve speciﬁed. When the ifconﬁg command is used by itself with no parameters, all 
conﬁgured interfaces will be reported on. But if only the interface name is speciﬁed, you’ll get 
output that looks like this: 
 
Figure 5.11: ifconﬁg command syntax (Lammle, 2022) 
 
Looking at this, we can see that the eth0 interface is a 10 Mbps Ethernet interface. The interface’s 
MAC and IP address information is displayed in this output as well. And, although not shown in 
the output, the ifconﬁg tool can show you the DNS information conﬁgured on the host. 