6.3 The Wireless Spectrum 
The wireless spectrum refers to the range of radio frequencies used to transmit data over the air. 
These frequencies are part of the electromagnetic spectrum, and they are used by wireless 
technologies such as Wi-Fi, Bluetooth, cellular networks, and radio. 
Wireless communication works by converting data into radio waves and sending them across 
speciﬁc frequency bands. Devices like routers, phones, and laptops have antennas that transmit 
and receive these signals. 
 
Figure 6.2 Wireless history (West, 2002) 

RFID (Radio Frequency Identiﬁcation) uses electromagnetic ﬁelds to store data on a small chip in 
an RFID tag, which includes an antenna that can both transmit and receive, and possibly a battery. 
The tag holds 1–8 KB of data, such as a serial number, credit card information, or medical data, 
which it can transmit to a nearby reader. RFID is commonly used for inventory management. 
Because the tag does not need to be precisely positioned close to the reader, an employee can 
quickly scan a shelf of several items to determine what’s in stock and what needs to be re-ordered 
without having to scan each individual item. An RFID tag might also be embedded in the 
customer’s credit card, allowing for “contactless” payment. 
NFC (near-ﬁeld communication) is a form of RFID and transfers data wirelessly over very short 
distances (usually 10 cm or less). A tiny antenna embedded in the device sends its radio signal at 
a ﬁxed frequency of 13.56 MHz this signal can also be transmitted in one direction by an NFC tag, 
or smart tag, such as when employees need to access a secure area of a building. Other uses of 
NFC tags include ticketing, cashless payment, shopping loyalty or membership programs, 
identiﬁcation, data sharing, and PC logon capabilities. 
NFC tags, such as the ones shown in Figure 6.3, require no power source other than the receiving 
device’s power ﬁeld. The NFC tag collects power from the smartphone or other device by 
magnetic induction, which is a form of wireless power transmission. Once power is introduced to 
the NFC tag by the receiving device’s proximity, the tag transmits its data. They can be 
programmed to transmit stored data, launch apps, direct a browser to a web page, or change 
device settings. This makes them useful even for casual, personal use, such as changing your 
phone’s settings when you pass through your front door at home or when you get into your car. 
 
Figure 6.3 NFC Tags (West, 2002) 