3.6 Defense in Depth 
A defense-in-depth strategy refers to the practice of using multiple layers of security between 
data and the resources on which it resides, as well as possible threats. A threat is any action or 
event that could negatively impact an organization’s system, data, or operations. Threats fall into 
two primary categories: internal and external. Internal threats originate within the local network. 
While these users often have legitimate access, they may misuse it intentionally or accidentally, 
posing a significant risk because they are already inside the firewall. External threats come from 
outside the firewall. These are typically hackers of all abilities. Hence, it is crucial to understand 
the vulnerability and threat before designing the defense. 
 
A vulnerability is a weakness in software, hardware, systems, or processes that can be exploited 
by a threat actor. Organizations regularly perform vulnerability assessments to continuously 
identify and address these weaknesses before they can be exploited. To prioritize remediation, 
the security teams use the Common Vulnerability Scoring System (CVSS). CVSS ranks 
vulnerabilities by severity and impact. These scores feed into the CVE database, managed by 
MITRE, to help security teams track and address known vulnerabilities. Moreover, the 
vulnerabilities with the highest severity are those targeted by a zero-day attack. A zero-day attack 
is an exploit that occurs against vulnerabilities that have not yet been publicly disclosed or 
patched. This attack carries the highest risk until a solution is developed. An exploit occurs when 
a threat actor successfully leverages a vulnerability to launch an attack. 
The concept of least privilege plays a pivotal role in minimizing the impact of threats and 
vulnerabilities. This concept states that users should be given access only to the resources needed 
to do their job, limiting potential damage if a user is compromised. More so, the Role-Based 
Access Control (RBAC) complements least privilege as it organizes permissions based on job roles 
(Lammle, 2015). 

Additionally, zero trust assumes no user, device, or network traﬃc should be 
trusted by default, even if it originates inside the organization. Conﬁguration under this zero trust 
denies all requests by default, only allowing traﬃc and actions that have been speciﬁcally 
authorized. This approach signiﬁcantly enhances their ability to protect critical data and systems, 
ensuring the core objectives of conﬁdentiality, integrity, and availability remain secured. The first 
layer of a good defense-in-depth strategy is appropriate access control strategies. The different 
defense in depth strategies are discussed in the sub-sections below:

3.6.1 Network segmentation 
Maintaining network security becomes more manageable by dividing the network into segments 
and carefully controlling access between them. (Lammle, 2015). This segmentation can be 
implemented at various layers of the OSI model, from layer 1 to layer 3. This can be achieved at 
layer 1 by separating devices into diﬀerent networks. At layer 2, by creating VLANs and using port 
security on switches, which helps prevent unwanted connections between devices on the same 
switch, and allows grouping users into virtual networks regardless of location and layer 3 
segmentation is handled by conﬁguring access control lists (ACLs) on routers or ﬁrewalls. These 
ACLs control traﬃc between subnets or VLANs, further enhancing security by strictly managing 
which systems can communicate.