3.8.2 Vulnerability Assessment 
Part of the security policy of an organization should address the type and frequency of 
vulnerability scans. These scans identify security vulnerabilities in the system. Additionally, this 
assessment identiﬁes security weaknesses, including misconﬁgurations, out-of-date software, 
missing patches, and open ports. One of the most widely used is Nessus, a proprietary 
vulnerability scanner developed by Tenable Network Security. 

3.8.3 Penetration Testing 
A penetration test is designed to simulate an attack on a system, network, or application. Its value 
lies in its potential to discover security holes that may have gone unnoticed. The are diﬀerent 
strategies for penetration testing, including blind testing, double-blind testing, and target testing. 
The Blind test is launched with limited knowledge of the network systems and devices, using 
publicly available information. The organization’s security team knows that an attack is coming. 
The double-blind test is similar to the blind test; however, the organization’s security team does 
not know that an attack is coming. This test usually requires equal eﬀort for both the testing team 
and the organization’s security team. Lastly, the target test requires both the testing and the 
organization’s security team to be given maximum information about the network and the type 
of test that will occur. This is the easiest test to complete, but it will not provide a full picture of 
the organization’s security

3.8.4 Business Assessment 
An organization should have a well-deﬁned risk management process in place that includes the 
evaluation of risks that are present. Once all assets have been identiﬁed and their value to the 
organization has been established, speciﬁc threats to each asset are identiﬁed. These facets 
ensure that any security controls implemented are in balance with the operations of the 
organization. Process assessment is the examination of all processes, policies, and procedures 
that govern the way we do things. As technologies change and more options become available, 
new methods and approaches may be called for. The goal is continuous improvement. According 
to vendor assessment, a business risk assessment should also include a careful review of all 
vendor relationships.