Uploading Files 

To upload a ﬁle to an FTP server, you’ve got to have rights on that speciﬁc server. These rights are 
assigned on a directory-by-directory basis. To upload a ﬁle, log in and then follow these steps: 
1. At the ftp command prompt, type lcd to navigate to the directory on the local machine 
where the ﬁle resides. 
2. Type cd to navigate to the destination directory. 
3. Set the ﬁle type to ASCII or binary. 
4. Use the put command to upload the ﬁle. 
The syntax of the put command looks like this: 
ftp>put local ﬁle destination ﬁle 
Let’s say you want to upload a ﬁle called 1.txt on the local server but you want it to be called 
my.txt on the destination server. To accomplish that, use the following command: 
ftp>put 1.txt my.txt 
You’ll get the following response: 
200 PORT command successful. 
150 Opening BINARY mode data connection for collwin.zip 
226 Transfer complete. 
743622 bytes sent in 0.55 seconds (1352.04 Kbytes/sec) 
You can upload multiple ﬁles using the mput command. Simply type mput, a space, and then a 
wildcard that speciﬁes the ﬁles. For example, to upload all the text ﬁles in a directory, type mput 
*.txt.

5.3.13 Telnet Utility 
Part of the TCP/IP protocol suite, Telnet is a virtual terminal protocol utility that allows you to 
make connections to remote devices, gather information, and run programs. Telnet was 
originally developed to open terminal sessions from remote Unix workstations to Unix servers. 
Although it’s still used for that purpose, we now use it as a troubleshooting tool as well. Figure 
5.34 shows the basic Telnet interface as it’s being used to start a terminal session on a remote 
Unix host. 

Figure 5.34: The Telnet utility (Lammle, 2022) 

In today’s Windows environments, Telnet is a basic command-line tool for testing TCP 
connections. You can telnet to any TCP port to see if it’s responding—something that’s 
especially useful when checking Simple Mail Transfer Protocol (SMTP) and HTTP (web) ports. 
As you learned in your networks modules each upper-layer service in a TCP stack has a number 
for its address. And by default, each network service that uses a particular address will respond 
to a TCP request on that speciﬁc port. 