Third-party applications are available that provide a GUI interface for FTP, which is easier to use 
than a command line. 

Starting FTP and Logging In to an FTP Server 
Of the two FTP ﬁle operations (download and upload), the ability to download ﬁles is deﬁnitely 
the more crucial for you to have down as a network technician or sys admin. The reason it’s so 
important for you to master is that network and client operating system drivers and patches are 
located on FTP servers all over the Internet. 

First, start the ftp utility as demonstrated earlier, and then follow these steps: 

1. At the ftp command prompt, type open, a space, and the name of the FTP server, 
like this: 

C:\Users\tlammle>ftp 

Page 149 of 202 
 
ftp>
open ftp.lammle.com 
Connected to ftp.lammle.com. 
220----------Welcome to Pure-FTPd [TLS] ---------- 
220-You are user number 1 of 50 allowed. 
220-Local time is now 11:45. Server port: 21. 
220-IPv6 connections are also welcome on this server. 
220 You will be disconnected after 15 minutes of inactivity. 
User (ftp.lammle.com:(none)):enter 
230 Anonymous user logged in 
ftp> 
As shown here, if the FTP server is available and running, you’ll receive a response welcoming you 
to the server and asking you for a username. Right now, I just have Anonymous as the username 
(enabled by default on the FTP server), which means that anyone can log in to it. (By the way, 
don’t bother trying this on my server because I disabled it for obvious reasons as soon as I ﬁnished 
writing this section.) 
You can also start an FTP session by typing ftp, a space, and the address of the FTP server (for 
example, ftp ftp.globalnettraining.com). This allows you to start the ftp utility and open a 
connection in one step. Here’s an example: 
C:\Users\tlammle>ftp ftp.globalnettraining.com 
Connected to ftp.globalnettraining.com. 
220 Microsoft FTP Service 
User (ftp.globalnettraining.com:(none)):todd 
331 Password required for todd. 
Password:not shown when typed 
230 User todd logged in. 
ftp>quit 
2. Enter a valid username, and press Enter. 
3. Enter your password, and press Enter. (The password won’t show up when you type it.) 