Option             Description 
-a                 Displays current ARP entries by interrogating the current protocol data. If 
                   inet_addr is speciﬁed, the IP and physical addresses for only the speciﬁed 
                   computer are displayed. If more than one network interface uses ARP, entries 
                   for each ARP table are displayed. 
-g                 Same as -a. 
-v                 Displays current ARP entries in verbose mode. All invalid entries and entries 
                   on the loopback interface will be shown. Inet_addr 
                   Speciﬁes an Internet address. 
-N                 Displays the ARP entries for the network interface speciﬁed by if_addr. 
-d                 Deletes the host speciﬁed by inet_addr. 
                   inet_addr may be wildcarded with * to delete all hosts. 
-s                 Adds the host and associates the Internet address inet_addr with the 
                   physical address eth_addr. The physical address is given as six hexadecimal 
                   bytes separated by hyphens. The entry is permanent. 
Eth_addr           Speciﬁes a physical address. 
If_addr            If present, speciﬁes the Internet address of the interface whose address 
                   translation table should be modiﬁed. If not present, the ﬁrst applicable interface 
                   will be used. 

TABLE 5.2 arp options 

To display the entire current ARP table, use the arp command with the –a switch like so to show 
you the MAC address lookup table: 

Figure 5.18: entire arp output (Lammle, 2022) 

By the way, the –g switch will produce the same result. 
Note 
 
Now, from this output, you can tell which MAC address is assigned to which IP address. Then, for 
static assignments, you can tell which workstation has a speciﬁc IP address and if it’s indeed 
supposed to have that address by examining your network documentation—you do have that 
record, right? 

For DHCP-assigned addresses, you can begin to uncover problems stemming from multiple nDHCP 
scopes or servers doling out identical addresses and other common conﬁguration issues. And 
remember that under normal circumstances, you shouldn’t see IP addresses in the ARP table that 
aren’t members of the same IP subnet as the interface. 
If the machine has more than one network card (as may happen in Windows servers and on 
laptops with both Ethernet and wireless cards), each interface will be listed separately. 
It’s good to know that in addition to displaying the ARP table, you can use the arp utility to 
manipulate the table itself. To add static entries to the ARP table, you use the arp command with 
the –s switch. These static entries will stay in the ARP table until the machine is rebooted. A static 
entry essentially hardwires a speciﬁc IP address to a speciﬁc MAC address so that when a packet 
needs to be sent to that IP address, it will automatically be sent to that MAC address. Here’s the 
syntax: 

arp –s [IP Address] [MAC Address] 

Simply replace the [IP Address] and [MAC Address] sections with the appropriate entries, like so: 
arp –s 204.153.163.5 00–a0–c0–ab–c3–11 

Now, take a look at your new ARP table by using the arp –a command. You should see something 
like this: 
 
Internet Address    Physical Address     Type 
204.153.163.5       00–a0–c0–ab–c3–11    static 
 
Finally, if you want to delete entries from the ARP table, you can either wait until the dynamic 
entries time out or use the –d switch with the IP address of the static entry you’d like to delete, 
like this:  arp –d 204.153.163.5 
Doing so eﬀectively deletes the entry from the ARP table in memory. 

The arp utility doesn’t conﬁrm successful additions or deletions (use arp -a or arp -g for that), but 
it will give you an error message if you use incorrect syntax.