We will now discuss those utilities mentioned:

5.3.1 traceroute 
For starters, let’s pose these questions: 
 
• Where do all those packets really go when we send them over the Internet? 
• And how do all the packets get to their destinations? 
 
Well, we can use the TCP/IP traceroute (tracert with Windows) command-line utility to help us 
answer both questions because its output will show us every router interface a TCP/IP packet 
passes through on the way to its destination. Traceroute (trace for short) displays the path a 
packet takes to get to a remote device in all its glory by using something we call IP packet time to 
live (TTL) time-outs and Internet Control Message Protocol (ICMP) error messages. And it’s also a 
handy tool for troubleshooting internetwork because we can use it to ﬁgure out which router 
along a path through that internetwork happens to be causing a network failure when a certain 
destination machine or network is, or suddenly becomes, unreachable. 
To use tracert, at a Windows command prompt, type tracert, a space, and the Domain Name 
Service (DNS) name or IP address of the host machine to which you want to ﬁnd the route. The 
tracert utility will respond with a list of all the DNS names and IP addresses of the routers that 
the packet is passing through on its way. Plus, tracert uses TTL to indicate the time it takes for 
each attempt. 

Following is the tracert output from my workstation in Cape town Western cape, to my 
Lammle.com server in Pretoria, Gauteng: 

Figure 5.3: Tracert output (Lammle, 2022, p.834) 

Were you able to see that the packet bounces through several routers before arriving at its 
destination? Good! This utility is useful if you are having problems reaching a web server on the 
Internet and you want to know if a wide area network (WAN) link is down or if the server just isn’t 
responding. What this means to you is that, basically, wherever the trace stops is a great place to 
start troubleshooting. No worries here, though—the previous output shows that every router is 
up and responding. Last, notice the ms in the output. This is the latency of each hop, meaning the 
delay. Tracert (or traceroute) is a great troubleshooting tool you can use to ﬁnd out where your 
network bottlenecks are. 

If you use traceroute or tracert and receive an asterisk, this indicates that the attempt to reach 
that router took longer than the default time-out value. This is very good to know because it can 
mean that either the router is extremely busy, or a particular link is slow. Another reason for 
getting an asterisk could be that the administrator has disabled ICMP on the router that the 
packet is trying to hop through. Why would someone want to do that? For security reasons, that’s 
why. It happens to be a typical strategic move done on the routers that interface with the ISP to 
conceal their actual location so bad guys can’t hack into them and therefore into your 
internetwork. It’s a good idea, and I highly recommend doing it. 
In addition to traceroute and tracert, you can use pathping, which is a lot like traceroute: 
 
Figure 5.4: Pathping output (Lammle, 2022) 

This provides a nice feedback at the end of the output.