Chapter Three: Security Concepts 

3.1 Introduction to Security Concepts 
In the ﬁeld of information security, the foundation for understanding, evaluating, and mitigating 
security risks is built on three elements collectively known as the CIA triad. The CIA triad includes 
Conﬁdentiality, Integrity, and Availability. More so, almost every security breach or vulnerability 
can be traced back to a compromise of at least one of these core elements (Lammle, 2015). The 
CIA triad plays a critical role in guiding the development and evaluation of security strategies, 
policies, and controls. 

3.2 CIA Triad 
Conﬁdentiality prevents the disclosure of data or information to unauthorized entities. The 
organization must determine the sensitivity level of the data prior to implementing access 
controls. Data classiﬁed with a higher sensitivity level should be protected with stricter access 
controls. A variety of cyber threats can compromise the conﬁdentiality element, including Man- 
in-the-Middle, eavesdropping, and unauthorized attackers (GeeksforGeeks, 2025). This element 
is maintained through encryption, identiﬁcation, authentication, and authorization. 
Integrity refers to the accuracy and consistency of data throughout its lifecycle. It is the assurance 
that information has not been tampered with or altered and remains trustworthy. Cyber threats 
like malware, man-in-the-middle, and insider threats can be detrimental to the integrity of the 
data (GeeksforGeeks, 2025). Integrity in the information can be preserved through checksums, 
version control, and digital signatures 

Availability ensures information and resources are accessible to authorized users when needed. 
If data or systems are unavailable, it leads to downtime, aﬀecting productivity and potentially 
causing signiﬁcant ﬁnancial losses (Fortinet, 2025). A denial-of-service (DoS) and distributed 
denial-of-service (DDoS) attacks are one of the many existing threats that jeopardize the 
availability element (Lammle, 2015). Technologies such as RAID or redundant sites provide fault 
tolerance to improve availability.  
 
Figure 3.1: CIA Triad