5.3.5 arp Utility
 
You now know that ARP is a protocol included in the TCP/IP suite. You also understand that ARP 
is used by IP to determine the MAC address of a device that exists on the same subnet as the 
requesting device. When a TCP/IP device needs to forward a packet to a device on the local 
subnet, it first looks in its own table, called an ARP cache or MAC address lookup table, for an
association between the known IP address of the destination device on the local subnet and that
same device’s MAC address. The cache is called because the contents are periodically weeded
out. If no association that includes the destination IP address can be found, the device will then
send out an ARP broadcast that includes its own MAC and IP information as well as the IP address
of the target device and a blank MAC address field. Filling in that blank is the object of the whole
operation—it’s the unknown value that the source device is requesting to be returned to it in the
form of an ARP reply. Windows includes a utility called arp that allows us to check out the
operating system’s ARP cache. To view this, from a Windows DOS prompt, use the arp command
like this:

C:\Users\tlammle>arp

Displays and modifies the IP-to-Physical address translation tables used
by address resolution protocol (ARP).

ARP -s inet_addr eth_addr [if_addr]
ARP -d inet_addr [if_addr]
ARP -a [inet_addr] [-N if_addr] [-v]

Figure 5.17: arp command output (Lammle, 2022)

Table 5.2 describes the various options that you can use with the arp command. Sheesh. Looking
at that output really makes me wish we were all just running IPv6 because, as you already should
know, IPv6 doesn’t need ARP as well as many other annoying features and protocols required
when running IPv4.

Of note, the Windows arp utility is primarily useful for resolving duplicate IP addresses. For
example, let’s say your workstation receives its IP address from a DHCP server but it accidentally
receives the same address that some other workstation gets. And so, when you try to ping it, you
get no response. Your workstation is basically confused—it’s trying to determine the MAC
address, and it can’t because two machines are reporting that they have the same IP address. To
solve this little snag, you can use the arp utility to view your local ARP table and see which TCP/IP
address is resolved to which MAC address.
