5.2 Software tools 
 
5.2.1 Wi-Fi Analyzers 
When deploying and troubleshooting wireless networks, you must have some way to determine 
signal levers, noise readings, SSIDs, and interference to resolve most Wi-Fi related issues. Wi-Fi 
analyzers can look into the air and gather valuable information so you can see what is healthy and 
what is not. Using Wi-Fi analyzers, you can see the Wi-Fi coverage in an area and use that 
information for optimal access-point placement to get complete coverage and avoid dead spots. 
Many vendors now have Wi-Fi analyzers built into access points and client software running on 
your laptop. Wireless controllers that manage multiple access points can also act as an analyzer 
and gather data from many access points in your network to give you a consolidated view of 
coverage, interference, and signal reception levels. 
 
5.2.2 Protocol Analyzer/Packet Capture 
Protocol analyzers, also called sniffers or network monitors, are used to capture packets 
in their raw format as they cross the network. Windows desktop operating systems before 
Windows Vista came with a built-in protocol analyzer called Network Monitor, but that is no 
longer the case, although you can download one for free that will work with the newer operating 
systems.

Protocol analyzers can be used to determine the type of traffic that you have in your network, 
and depending on the product and the architecture contained therein, you may be able to sort 
the results based on port numbers, protocols, and so on. Another use of a sniffer is to examine 
the traffic that should be occurring on the network when something is not working to aid in 
troubleshooting. These devices can capture and display all packets involved in the connection 
setup, including, for example, request and response headers to a web server. 
There are four packet types that must occur for a DHCP client to receive an IP configuration from 
the server. 
 
• DHCP Discover 
• DHCP Offer 
• DHCP Request 
• DHCP ACK 
 
FIGURE 5.1: DHCP capture (Lammle, 2022, p. 828) 
 
If all you saw in the capture were the DHCP Discover packets with no DHCP Offer packets, you 
could reasonably assert that the DHCP server is not receiving the DHCP Offer packets (perhaps 
the DHCP server is located in another broadcast domain or perhaps it is not on). Additionally, you 
could examine fields in the DHCP Offer packets that may tell you that the DHCP server is out of 
addresses. The point is that the tool can be used to troubleshoot the issue. 