6.5 Wireless Transmission and Reception through Antennas 
The air provides no ﬁxed path for signals to follow, so signals travel without guidance. Contrast 
this to wired media, such as STP or ﬁber-optic cable, which do provide a ﬁxed signal path. The 
lack of a ﬁxed path requires wireless signals to be transmitted, received, controlled, and corrected 
diﬀerently than wired signals. Part of this work is done at a hardware level. 
Just as with wired signals, wireless signals originate from electrical current traveling along a 
conductor. The electrical signal travels from the transmitter to an antenna, which then emits the 
signal as a series of electromagnetic waves into the atmosphere. The signal moves through the 
air and eventually reaches (or rather, passes) its destination. At the destination, another antenna 
detects the signal going by, and a receiver converts it back to current. 
 
Figure 6.6 Wireless transmission and reception (West, 2002) 

Notice that antennas are used for both the transmission and reception of wireless signals. As you 
might expect, to exchange information, two antennas must be tuned to the same frequency so 
they can communicate on the same channel. Thus, each type of wireless service requires an 
antenna speciﬁcally designed for that service. The service’s speciﬁcations determine the 
antenna’s power output, frequency, and radiation pattern. An antenna’s radiation pattern 
describes the relative strength over a three-dimensional area of all the electromagnetic energy 
the antenna sends or receives. 
Radiation patterns can be used to classify antennas into two basic categories: 
• Directional antenna (also called a unidirectional antenna): Issues wireless signals along a 
single direction. This type is used when the source needs to communicate with one 
destination, as in a point-to-point link or in a speciﬁc area. A satellite downlink (for 
example, the kind used to receive digital TV signals) uses directional antennas. 
• Omnidirectional antenna: Issues and receives wireless signals with equal strength and 
clarity in all directions, although in the real world, an omnidirectional antenna is never 
perfectly balanced. This type is used when many receivers or mobile receivers must be 
able to pick up the signal in many directions. TV and radio stations use omnidirectional 
antennas, as do most towers that transmit cellular signals and most mobile devices 
The geographical area that an antenna or wireless system can reach is known as range. Receivers 
must be located within a transmitter’s range to receive accurate signals consistently. Even within 
an antenna’s range, however, signals may be hampered by obstacles and rendered unintelligible. 

Choosing the correct type of antenna for the application can help solve the problem. Typical users 
might not put much thought into a wireless device’s antenna, as the antenna is usually attached 
directly to the device or even embedded within it (such as with a smartphone or laptop). 
However, network technicians need to be more aware of what antennas devices have, and they 
also need some basic knowledge on other types of antennas and how to work with them. 
 
 