2.2 Documentation 
The way you format and store your documentation can vary, but to adequately manage your 
network, you should at least record the following: 

● Physical topology—Which types of LAN and WAN topologies does your network use: bus, star, 
ring, hybrid, mesh, or a combination of these? Which type of backbone does your network use— 
collapsed, distributed, parallel, serial, or a combination of these? Which type and grade of cabling 
does your network use? What types of cables are used and where are they located? 
● Access method—Does your network use Ethernet (802.3), Wi-Fi (802.11), WiMAX (802.16), 
cellular, satellite, or a mix of transmission methods? What transmission speed(s) does it provide? 
Is it switched? 
● Protocols—Which protocols are used by servers, nodes, and connectivity devices? 
● Devices—How many of the following devices are connected to your network—switches, 
routers, gateways, firewalls, access points, servers, UPSs, printers, backup devices, and clients? 
Where are they located? Are they physical or virtual? If physical, what are their model numbers 
and vendors? 
● Operating systems—Which network and desktop operating systems appear on the network? 
Which versions of these operating systems are used by each device? Which type and version of 
operating systems are used by connectivity devices such as routers? 
● Applications—Which applications are used by clients and servers? Where do you store the 
applications? From where do they run? 
● Configurations—What versions of operating systems and applications does each workstation, 
server, and connectivity device run? How are these programs configured? How is hardware 
configured? The collection, storage, and assessment of such information belongs to a category 
of network management known as configuration management. Ideally, you would rely on 
configuration management software to gather and store the information in a database, where 
those who need it can easily access and analyze the data