When setting up a WLAN, most network administrators use the AP’s conﬁguration utility to assign 
a custom SSID, rather than the default SSID provided by the manufacturer. The default SSID often 
contains the name of the manufacturer and perhaps even the model number of the access point, 
which can give hackers a head-start on cracking into the network. Changing the SSID contributes 
to better security and easier network management, though you should keep the following tips in 
mind: 

• Disguise the nature of the network identiﬁed by the SSID to avoid giving hackers more 
information than necessary. For example, it’s probably not a good idea to name the 
Accounting Department’s access point “Acctg.” 
• Minimize confusion for employees by using easily recognized though uncommon SSIDs. 
The point of this is to increase security on client devices as they travel to other areas, so 
they don’t inadvertently attempt to connect to networks with an identical name. 
IEEE terminology includes a couple of notable variations to the standard service set conﬁguration. 
These terms reﬂect the most common wireless topologies as well: 
• IBSS (independent basic service set) using an ad hoc topology, A small number of nodes 
closely positioned transmit directly to each other without an intervening connectivity 
device, as shown in Figure 6.11 

Figure 6.11 An ad hoc WLAN (West, 2002) 

• BSS (basic service set) using an infrastructure topology A group of nodes share an access point, 
as shown in Figure 6.12. The AP accepts wireless signals from multiple nodes and retransmits 
them, usually on a wired connection, to the rest of the network. To cover its intended range, an 
access point must have suﬃcient power and must be strategically placed so that all connected 
nodes can communicate with it. The identiﬁer for this group of nodes is known as a BSSID (basic 
service set identiﬁer). 
• ESS (extended service set) using a mesh topology Several access points work as peer devices 
on the same network, as illustrated in Figure 6.13, where the AP devices cooperate to provide 
more fault-tolerant network access to clients across a larger geographical range. These APs are 
conﬁgured and managed by a wireless LAN controller, which might be used only initially to 
conﬁgure the APs, or the APs might remain connected to the wireless controller for continued 
management. Clients that belong to the same ESS share a special identiﬁer called an ESSID 
(extended service set identiﬁer). In practice, many networking professionals don’t distinguish 
between the terms SSID and ESSID. They simply conﬁgure every access point in a group or LAN 
with the same SSID. 

Figure 6.12 An Infrastructure WLAN (West, 2002) 
  
Figure 6.13 A network with multiple BSSs form an ESS (West, 2002) 
 
A network with multiple BSSs forms an ESS device can be moved from one room to the next 
without losing network connectivity. 