3.7.10 Extensible Authentication Protocol (EAP) 

Extensible Authentication Protocol (EAP) isn’t a single method but a framework that enhances 
the existing 802.1X framework. Furthermore, the EAP framework describes a basic set of actions 
that will take place, and each EAP type diﬀers in the speciﬁcs of how it operates within the 
framework. These variables include things like whether they use passwords or certiﬁcates, as well 
as the ultimate level of security provided. There are various EAP types, namely, Protected 
EAP(PEAP), EAP-Fast, and EAP-TLS. 

The PEAP is a protocol that encapsulates an EAP within an encrypted and authenticated Transport 
Layer Security (TLS) tunnel. The EAP-FAST operates in 2 stages; initially TLS tunnel is established. 
Unlike PEAP, this is achieved through a preshared key called the Protected Authentication 
Credential (PAC). Secondly, a series of type/length/value (TLV)–encoded data is used to carry a 
user authentication. EAP Transport Layer Security (EAP-TLS) is the most secure method, but it’s 
also the most diﬃcult to conﬁgure and maintain. EAP-TLS requires the installation of a certiﬁcate 
on both the authentication server and the client 

A preshared key (PSK), where all devices share the same password to connect to the network. 
While easier to set up, it’s less secure because the shared key must be updated often to stay 
eﬀective 

3.8 Security Risk Assessment 
Security assessments are used to identify security vulnerabilities to eliminate them. The 
subsections below cover the diﬀerent types of security risk assessments. 
 
3.8.1 Threat Assessment 
Prior to performing a vulnerability or a penetration test, it is useful to identify the types of risk 
with which you are concerned. Threat intelligence feeds are constantly updating streams of 
indicators or artifacts derived from a source outside the organization. More so, threat intelligence 
covers suspicious domains, a list of known malware hashes, and IP addresses associated with 
malicious activity. 