3.3.2 Man-in-the-middle 
A man-in-the-middle (MitM) attack is a type of cyber-attack in which the attacker secretly 
intercepts and manipulates messages between two parties who believe they are communicating 
directly with each other. MitM cyber-attacks pose a serious threat to online security because they 
give the attacker the ability to capture and manipulate sensitive personal information, such as 
login credentials, account details, or credit card numbers in real-time (Lammle, 2015). 
 
Figure 3.5: MitM attack 
 
3.3.3 DNS Poisoning 
DNS spooﬁng or DNS cache poisoning is an attack in which altered DNS records are used to 
redirect users or data to a fraudulent website or link that is camouﬂaged as the actual destination 
(Imperva, 2025). DNS clients send requests for name to IP address resolution (called queries) to 
a DNS server. The search for the IP address that goes with a computer or domain name usually 
starts with a local DNS server that is not authoritative for the DNS domain in which the requested 
computer or website resides. When this occurs, the local DNS server makes a request that the 
DNS server does hold the record in question. After the local DNS server receives the answer, it 
returns it to the local DNS client. After this, the local DNS server maintains that record in its DNS 
cache for a period called the time to live (TTL), which is usually an hour but can vary. 
 
Figure 3.6: DNS Poisoning 

3.3.4 VLAN Hopping 
VLANs, or virtual LANs, are layer 2 subdivisions of the ports in a single switch. A VLAN may also 
span multiple switches. When devices are segregated into VLANs, access control lists (ACLs) can 
be used in a router to control access between VLANs in the same way as it is done between real 
LANs. When VLANs span switches, the connection between the switches is called a trunk link, and 
it carries the traﬃc of multiple VLANs. Trunk links are also used for the connection from the switch 
to the router. A VLAN hopping attack results in traﬃc from one VLAN being sent to the wrong 
VLAN. Normally, this is prevented by the trunking protocol, which places a VLAN tag in the packet 
to identify the VLAN to which the traﬃc belongs. 
The attacker can circumvent this by a process called double tagging, which is placing a fake VLAN 
tag into the packet along with the real tag. When the frame goes through multiple switches, the 
real tag is taken oﬀ by the switch 
 
Figure 3.7: VLAN Spooﬁng