5.3.9 route Command 
Windows devices like routers perform routing. Most of the time, it’s a good idea to leave Windows 
alone, but it’s still good to know how to add and delete routes on your Windows machines. 
Probably the biggest reason for manipulating the routing table on a Windows server is to create 
a ﬁrewall. For instance, let’s say we’re running an Application layer ﬁrewall on a Windows server 
located between a screen subnet, formerly known as a demilitarized zone (DMZ), and the internal 
network. This scenario would mean the routing that’s happening on the server or hosts located 
in the DMZ wouldn’t be able to reach the internal network’s hosts and vice versa. To circumvent 
this problem, we would need to employ both static and default routing because while Windows 
10 and Windows Server versions support some routing protocols, running routing protocols on 
hosts and servers wouldn’t be a good solution for today’s networks, and Microsoft knows that. To 
view the routing table on a Windows device, use the route print command, as shown in Figure 
5.21. 
In this output, you can see that each of the routes were added automatically when the system 
booted up. (This is all based on the conﬁguration of your IP stack.) To see all the options available 
with the route command, type the route command and then press Enter. To add a route to your 
routing table, use the following syntax: 
route [-f] [-p] [Command [Destination] [mask Netmask] [Gateway] 
 
[metric Metric]] [if Interface]] 
Using the route Command Options 
 
Let’s start with the switches you can use: 
 
-f Using this switch with any of the options like add, change, or delete will clear the routing table 
of all entries that aren’t host routes (routes with the subnet mask 255.255.255.255), the loopback 
network route or routes (routes with a destination of 127.0.0.0 and the subnet mask 255.0.0.0), 
and any multicast routes (those with a destination of 224.0.0.0 and the subnet mask 240.0.0.0). 
-p If you use this with the add command, the individual route will be added to the 
Registry and then used to initialize the IP routing table whenever TCP/IP is started. It is important 
to remember that by default, the routes you’ve statically added won’t remain at the routing table 
the next time TCP/IP boots. And if you use -p with the print command, you’ll be shown a list of 
the persistent routes that are stored in the Registry location of 
HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE\SYSTEM\CurrentControlSet\Services\Tcpip\Parameters\PersistentRout 
es. 
Now, let’s take a look at how and when you would use the route command. Table 5.4 shows the 
command options available and what they do when you are using the route command with them. 
 
Figure 5.21: route print output (Lammle, 2022) 