2.4.1 Flow Control 
Flow control is a bandwidth management technique configured on a local connection between 
two devices. The purpose is to ensure the receiver is not overwhelmed with the rate of data 
transmission. Flow control can be managed either at the data link layer or at the network and 
transport layers. When managed at the higher layers, rate-based flow control limits the amount 
of data that can be transmitted but does not provide feedback to the sender when that rate is 
exceeded. Instead, traffic is lost. In contrast, feedback-based flow control at the data link layer 
gives the sender some kind of indication when the transmission rate is exceeding the receiver’s 
ability to handle the incoming traffic. Common approaches are the stop-and-wait method and 
two versions of the sliding window method. Consider the following scenarios: 

Stop-and-wait method 
A sender transmits a frame and then waits for an acknowledgment before transmitting the next 
frame. See Figure 2-2. If an acknowledgment is not received, the sender retransmits the 
unacknowledged frame. This way, whether the frame is lost in transit or the acknowledgment is 
lost, the frame is still resent. At no time is the receiver required to handle more than one 
incoming frame, and each frame must be acknowledged before sending another frame. This 
approach is simple and provides high accuracy. However, it’s also very slow because only one 
frame can be sent at a time. 
  
Figure 2-2 Stop and Wait method 
 
Go-back-n sliding window method 
A sender can transmit multiple frames at one time while considering the maximum number of 
frames the receiver can handle at any time. For example, suppose a receiver can handle up to 
three incoming frames at any given time, as shown in Figure 2-3. The sender transmits three 
frames and waits for three acknowledgments. If all three acknowledgments are received, the 
sender transmits another three frames. If an acknowledgment is missing, the sender retransmits 
all three frames, even if only one frame was lost. 
 
Figure 2-3 Go-back-n sliding window method 

Selective repeat sliding window method 
In this scenario, as shown in Figure 2-4, only the unacknowledged frame is retransmitted. The 
sender continues sending additional frames as long as space is available in the window for new 
frames. This is a more efficient approach because later frames don’t have to wait on as many 
earlier frames to be acknowledged. However, it’s also more complex because the receiver must 
be able to receive frames out of order and reorganize them, even if a much earlier frame 
experiences a relatively lengthy delay. 
 
Figure 2-4 Selective repeat sliding window method