Figure 5.26: Sample output of the nbtstat –S command (Lammle, 2022) 
 
Here you can see the NetBIOS name being displayed along with its hex ID and the status of each 
session. An entry in the In/Out column determines whether the connection has been initiated 
from the computer on which you’re running nbtstat (outbound) or whether another computer 
has initiated the connection (inbound). The numbers in the Input and Output columns indicate in 
bytes the amount of data transferred between the stations. 

The –s Switch 
As with the –A and –a switches, the lowercase –s switch is similar to its uppercase sibling. The 
nbtstat –s command produces the same output as nbtstat –S except that it will also attempt to 
resolve remote-host IP addresses into hostnames. Figure 5.27 shows sample output from the 
nbtstat –s command. 

Figure 5.27: Sample output of the nbtstat –s command (Lammle, 2022) 
Note the similarities between Figure 5.26 and Figure 5.27. 
As with the netstat command, with the nbtstat command you can place a number for an interval 
at the end to direct it to deploy once every so many seconds until you press Ctrl+C. 
 
5.3.11 netstat Utility 
Using netstat is a great way to check out the inbound and outbound TCP/IP connections on your 
machine. You can also use it to view packet statistics like how many packets have been sent and 
received, the number of errors, and so on. When used without any options, netstat produces 
output similar to the following, which shows all the outbound TCP/IP connections. This utility is a 
great tool to use to determine the status of outbound web connections. Take a look: 
If the address of either your computer or the destination computer can be found in the hosts ﬁle 
on your computer, the destination computer’s name, rather than the IP address, will show up in 
either the Local Address or Foreign Address column. 

Note 
 
Figure 5.28: netstat output (Lammle, 2022) 
 
The Proto column lists the protocol being used. You can see that I’m connected to my Exchange 
server and an FTP server and that I have some HTTP sessions open; by the way, all of them use 
TCP at the Transport layer. The Local Address column lists the source address and the source port 
(source socket). The Foreign Address column lists the address of the destination machine (the 
hostname if it’s been resolved). If the destination port is known, it will show up as the well-known 
port. In the previous output, you see http instead of port 80 and ftp instead of port 21. The State 
column indicates the status of each connection. This column shows statistics only for TCP 
connections because User Datagram Protocol (UDP) establishes no virtual circuit to the remote 
device. Usually, this column indicates ESTABLISHED when a TCP connection between your 
computer and the destination computer has been established. All sessions eventually time out 
and then close, and you can see that I have all of these listed in my netstat output. 
 
The output of the netstat utility depends on the switch. By using the netstat /? command, we can 
see the options available to us. 

C:\Users\tlammle>netstat /? 
All of the netstat switch options are listed in Table 5.7. 
 