Command                  Description 
ls                       Short for list. Displays a directory listing. Very similar to the DIR command 
                         in MS-DOS. 
cd                       Short for change directory. Works almost identically to the MS-DOS 
                         CD command. Use it to change to a diﬀerent directory and navigate the 
                         server’s directory structure. 

pwd 
Short for print working directory. Displays the current directory on the 
server. Useful if you forget where you are when changing to several 
locations on the server. 
lcd 
Short for local change directory. Displays and changes the current 
Short for local change directory. Displays and changes the current 
directory on the local machine. Useful when you are downloading a ﬁle 
and aren’t in the directory where you want to put the ﬁle. 

TABLE 5.8 Common FTP navigation commands

To set the ﬁle type to ASCII, type ascii at the ftp command prompt. ftp will respond by telling you 
that the ﬁle type has been set to A (ASCII): 

ftp>ascii 

Type set to A 
To set the ﬁle type to binary, type binary at the ftp command prompt. ftp will respond by telling 
you that the ﬁle type has been set to I (binary): 

ftp>binary
 
Type set to I 
To download the ﬁle, just use the get command like this: 

ftp>get lammlepress.exe 
200 PORT command successful. 
150 Opening BINARY mode data connection for 'scrsav.exe' 
(567018 bytes). 
The ﬁle will start downloading to your hard drive. Unfortunately, with its default settings, the ftp 
utility doesn’t give you any indication of the progress of the transfer. When the ﬁle has 
downloaded, the ftp utility will display the following message and return you to the ftp command 
prompt: 
226 Transfer complete. 
567018 bytes received in 116.27 seconds (4.88 Kbytes/sec) 
You can download multiple ﬁles by using the mget command. Simply type mget, a space, and 
then something known as a wildcard that speciﬁes the ﬁles you want to get. For example, to 
download all the text ﬁles in a directory, type mget *.txt.  