5.2.4 Port Scanners 

A port scanner is a software tool designed to search for a host for open ports. Those of us 
administering our networks use port scanners to ensure their security, but bad guys use them to 
ﬁnd a network’s vulnerabilities and compromise them. To port scan means to scan for TCP and 
UDP open ports on a single target host either to legitimately connect to and use its services for 
business and/or personal reasons or to ﬁnd and connect to those ports and subsequently attack 
the host and steal or manipulate it for nefarious reasons. 

In contrast there is port sweeping, meaning scanning multiple hosts on a network for a speciﬁc 
listening to TCP or UDP port, like SQL. (SQL injection attacks are super common today.) This just 
happens to be a favorite approach used by hackers when trying to invade your network. They 
port sweep in a broad manner, and then, if they ﬁnd something—in this case, SQL—they can port 
scan a particular host they’ve discovered with the desired service available to exploit and get 
what they’re after. This is why it’s a really good idea to turn oﬀ any unused services on your servers 
and routers and to run only the minimum services required on every host machine in your 
nenetwork. Do yourself a big favor and make sure this is in your security policy. 
 
5.2.5 NetFlow Analyzers 
The NetFlow protocol allows for the viewing and analysis of application-level traﬃc across an 
interface. NetFlow is a step above SNMP in that it looks at the actual conversations taking place 
on your network and based on that information, allows you to gain deep visibility of what traﬃc 
is moving across your network. NetFlow collects information on each unique traﬃc ﬂow into and 
out of a network device interfaces. NetFlow collects source and destination addresses, application 
information, and quality of service (QoS) data and is very helpful in troubleshooting causes of 
networking problems. A ﬂow exporter is a network device such as a router that monitors traﬃc 
ﬂowing in and out of an interface and exports not the complete packet but a summary of its 
contents to a ﬂow collector. A ﬂow collector is a server on the network that receives the ﬂows 
from multiple exporters and consolidates the NetFlow data in a centralized storage location. A 
NetFlow application then analyzes the data and creates reports, charts, graphs, and sometimes 
analytics on the information received.