How to Enable Telnet in Windows 
Because most people have the Windows 10 operating system running on their PCs these days, 
it’s good to know that, by default, this operating system installs without Telnet available. But 
there’s a way around that one—if you really must have a Telnet client enabled in the Windows 
operating system, here’s how to do it: 

1. Open Control Panel. 
2. elect Programs and Features. 
3. In the left column, select Turn Windows Features On Or Oﬀ (get ready for the annoying 
User Account Control [UAC] prompt, and then enter your name and password). 
4. Select the Telnet check box (and any other obscure services you may want enabled), and 
wait while Windows thinks for a while and then reboots. Go to Start and then type 
telnet in the Start search box to get a Telnet window to open for you. You can also open 
a DOS prompt and just type telnet from there. Here are the options that Windows 
provides with Telnet:
 
Microsoft Telnet> ? 

Commands may be abbreviated. Supported commands are: 

c 
-close 
close current connection 
d 
-display 
display operating parameters 
o 
-open hostname [port] 
connect to hostname (default port 23). 
q 
-quit 
exit telnet 
set 
-set 
set options (type 'set ?' for a list) 
sen 
-send 
send strings to server 
st 
-status 
print status information 
u 
-unset 
unset options (type 'unset ?' for a list) 
?/h 
-help 
print help information 

Now that we’ve ﬁnished talking about Telnet,recommendation is that you never use it again, 
here’s why. 
Don’t Use Telnet, Use Secure Shell 
What? I just told you how to use Telnet, and now I am telling you not to use it. That’s right, 
don’t use Telnet! Telnet is totally insecure because it sends all data in crystal-clear text including 
your name and password. And I’m pretty sure you know that’s a really bad thing these days. If 
Microsoft doesn’t even enable it on its latest OSs, then you know it really must be insecure. So, 
if you shouldn’t use Telnet, what should you use instead? Secure Shell (SSH) is your answer. It 
provides the same options as Telnet, plus a lot more; but most important, it doesn’t send any 
data in clear text. The thing is, your servers, routers, and other devices need to be enabled with 
SSH, and it’s not conﬁgured by default on most devices. Some conﬁguration is usually necessary 
if you want things to work as they really should, and yes, sometimes it’s a little painful to get 
everything running smoothly, but it’s all worth it in the long run. Disable Telnet on all my routers 
and use SSH exclusively. Even so, you should still understand Telnet and get some practice with 
it in case you do ever need it. 