3.11.2 Client-to-Site VPN 
Client-to-site allows remote users or employees to securely connect to the company network 
from anywhere. A common issue is that users can get on the Internet but can’t reach the oﬃce 
network because they don’t have the correct VPN address or password. A clientless VPN enables 
end users to securely access resources on the corporate network from anywhere using an 
SSL/TLS-enabled web browser. They need no remote access clients to do this, only a browser that 
can perform SSL or the more secure TLS.

When a client-to-site VPN is created, it is possible to do so in two ways: split tunnel and full tunnel. 
The diﬀerence is whether the user uses the VPN for connecting to the Internet as well as for 
connecting to the oﬃce. Split tunneling works by using two connections at the same time: the 
secure VPN connection and an open connection to the Internet. With SSLsplit tunneling, only 
traﬃc to the oﬃce goes through the VPN. Internet traﬃc does not. The security issue with this is 
that while the user is connected to the VPN, they are also connected to the most untrusted 
network, the Internet. With a full tunnel, all traﬃc goes through the VPN, which means the user 
is accessing the Internet through the connection of the oﬃce, and so all traﬃc will be examined 
by the oﬃce security.

Figure 3.11: Client to Site VPN  

3.11.3 Remote Desktop Connection 
Remote Desktop Protocol (RDP) is a proprietary protocol developed by Microsoft. RDP operates 
somewhat like Telnet, except that instead of getting a command-line prompt as you do with 
Telnet, you get the actual graphical user interface (GUI) of the remote computer. A remote 
desktop connection is designed to allow you to establish a connection to a machine, view its 
desktop, and perform any action you could perform if you were sitting in front of it. This 
connectivity provides real-time issue observations, interactive support, eﬃciency, and reduces 
costs. 

Furthermore, attackers constantly probe remote services, and unsecured RDP connections 
remain a popular target for brute-force attacks, credential theft, and ransomware campaigns. To 
mitigate these risks, organizations are turning to more secure alternatives, such as RDP Gateway. 
RDP Gateway, developed by RouterHosting, strengthens remote access. It utilizes SSL encryption 
to securely tunnel connections, eliminating the need to route through third-party services, and 
integrates natively with Windows Server infrastructure. Additionally, it uses SSL encryption to 
securely tunnel connections without relying on a VPN, eliminates the need to route through third- 
party services, and integrates natively with Windows Server infrastructure 
