Command              Purpose 
add                  Adds a route 
change               Modiﬁes an existing route 
delete               Deletes a route (or routes) 
print                Prints a route (or routes) 

TABLE 5.4 route command options 
 
Here’s a description of some other tasks you can accomplish via the rest of the command’s 
options: 

Destination This will give you the network destination of a given route. If the host bits of the 
network address are set to 0, it will be depicted with the destination’s IP network address, an IP 
address for a speciﬁc host route, or the default route of 0.0.0.0. 
mask netmask This will provide you with the netmask—often referred to as the subnet mask— 
that’s associated with the destination network. The default destination subnet mask is 0.0.0.0, 
and typically you’ll see 255.255.255.255 representing a host route. It’s important to remember 
that the destination address can’t be more speciﬁc than its corresponding subnet mask. What I’m 
saying is that there absolutely can’t be a bit set to 1 in the destination address if the equivalent 
bit in the subnet mask is a 0. 

Gateway The gateway also depends on the network address and subnet mask, but it’s even more 
speciﬁc and delimits what’s called the next-hop IP address. For routes located on a local subnet, 
the gateway address maps directly to a particular interface. If the destination is on a remote 
network, the gateway IP address will direct packets to the neighboring router. 
metric metric Metric refers to the cost of a given route from the sending to the receiving device, 
and it’s a value between 1 and 9999. Devices use this value to choose the best, or most eﬃcient, 
routes among those in its routing table—the route with the lowest value wins. This decision can 
also include factors like the number of hops and the speed, reliability, and available bandwidth of 
the path being considered plus the various administrative aspects associated with it. 
if interface This tool depends on information from the gateway address and determines the 
interface index for the speciﬁc interface that needs to receive the data. You can get a list of 
interfaces along with their relevant interface indexes by typing the route print command. 
/? Using this will allow you to view help at the command prompt. 