5.2.6 Trivial File Transfer Protocol (TFTP) Server 
When the time comes to upgrade the software on a piece of networking equipment such as a 
switch or router, the code is downloaded from the vendor site to your laptop or a management 
server. Then steps are taken to transfer the code to the actual device. One of the most common 
methods is to use the Trivial File Transfer Protocol (TFTP) as it is supported by all vendors. A TFTP 
server is a small application that is available from a wide variety of developers as freeware for 
Windows and Linux computers. All that is needed is to run the TFTP server on your local machine 
and point its source directory to the location of the ﬁle to upload. Then from the network device, 
specify the IP address of the TFTP server and the name of the ﬁle you want to upload. TFTP is 
designed to be a simple, eﬀective, and fast method to upload code to a network device. 

5.2.7 Connectivity Software 

There are times when you need to make a remote connection to a machine to perform 
troubleshooting, but you are miles away. Connectivity software is designed to allow you to make 
a connection to the machine, see the desktop, and perform any action you could perform if you 
were sitting in front of it. Microsoft has made what it calls Remote Desktop software available for 
free with Windows products since Windows NT. When this software is installed (by default in later 
versions) on both source and destination computers, a remote desktop connection can be made. 
Commercial tools are also available that (of course) claim to have more functionality, and they 
probably do have a few extra bells and whistles. These include LogMeIn.com, GoToMyPC, and 
others. The advantages of these connectivity tools are obvious. With these tools, you can do 
anything you need to on the machine if you can connect. They also allow you to see what a user 
is doing when they encounter a problem rather than having to rely on what they tell you they are 
doing. You can even show a user what they are doing wrong. Most of these tools allow for chat 
sessions and for either end of the connection to take control of the machine. You can also transfer 
ﬁles to them if required (maybe a DLL got deleted, for example). 
 
For networking, it is common to access the device’s command-line interface remotely. This will 
require you to use terminal emulation software. Today the Telnet protocol is rarely used because 
it has no security, and all data is sent unencrypted. Secure Shell (SSH) is the preferred method of 
accessing a remote device command line from across a network. There are many free and 
commercial terminal emulation packages for you to use. The most common open-source 
emulator is PuTTY, and it supports Telnet, SSH, and serial interfaces. PuTTY is widely used and 
found in almost every networking shop. As for commercial packages, SecureCRT is popular and 
has an extensive feature set.