Cisco Packet Tracer installed 
 
1. Open Packet Tracer—make sure you’re starting from a new ﬁle, not an existing network. From 
the Network Devices > Wireless Devices menu, insert a WRT300N wireless router. 
2. On the wireless router’s Conﬁg tab, set its LAN-facing IP address to 192.168.5.1 and subnet 
mask to 255.255.255.0. 
3. From the End Devices menu, insert a Laptop. 
4. On the laptop’s Physical tab, replace the Ethernet network module with a wireless module: 
a. Click the laptop’s power button to turn oﬀ the laptop. 
b. Drag the PT-LAPTOP-NM-1CFE card from the laptop to the MODULES pane. Zoom in if 
necessary. The card is labelled FAST ETH 0. 
c. Drag the WPC300N module from the MODULES pane to empty slot on the laptop, as shown in 
Figure 6.16 
 
Figure 6.16 Laptop wireless module (West, 2002) 
 
d. Turn the laptop back on. 
e. Within a few seconds, a wireless connection is automatically created between the wireless 
router and the laptop. If not, troubleshoot the problem 
5. Now you need to set up some security parameters on the wireless router: 
a. On the wireless router’s Conﬁg tab on the Wireless page, select WPA2-PSK authentication. This 
option will use a passphrase instead of a RADIUS server, which is less secure but is more likely 
what you would use on a small SOHO network. 
b. Set the PSK Pass Phrase to networkplus. 
c. Make sure the encryption type is AES, which is more secure than TKIP. 
d. What has happened to your wireless network connection? Why do you think this is? 
6. To solve this problem, you need to give the client the proper credentials: 
a. On the laptop’s Conﬁg tab, enter the correct authentication information. 
b. If the connection does not re-establish, troubleshoot the problem. 
c. Make a screenshot of the information you entered on the wireless interface’s conﬁguration 
menu to establish successful authentication; submit this visual with your answers to this project’s 
questions. 
The wireless router oﬀers many of the same GUI-based options you might see on a home router’s 
user interface. To explore some of the security options, complete the following steps: 
7. On the wireless router’s GUI tab, what is the current DHCP pool? What is the client lease time? 
8. On the Wireless > Basic Wireless Settings page, change the default SSID to HappyVintage. 
Scroll to the bottom of the screen and click Save Settings. 
9. On the Wireless > Wireless Security page, WPA2 Personal is already selected. What other 
security mode options do you have? Which of these security modes is the most secure? 
10. AES encryption is selected. What other encryption option do you have? Which of these 
encryption options is most secure? 
11. Close the wireless router’s conﬁguration window. What changed on your network? Why do 
you think this is?  
12. On the laptop’s Conﬁg tab, on the Wireless0 page, correct the SSID. What happens on your 
network? 
13. Save your project. 