5.3.10 nbtstat Utility 
Microsoft Windows uses an interface called Network Basic Input/Output System (NetBIOS), which 
relates names with workstations and is an upper-layer interface that requires a transport 
protocol—usually TCP/IP. But IPv6 can be used as well. Deploying the nbtstat utility will achieve 
these three important things: 
• Track NetBIOS over TCP/IP statistics 
• Show the details of incoming and outgoing NetBIOS over TCP/IP connections 
• Resolve NetBIOS names 
Understand that because NetBIOS name resolution is primarily a Windows network utility, the 
nbtstat command is available only in Windows-based operating systems. To display a basic 
description of nbtstat and its associated options, type nbtstat at the command line. Then, use 
these options to get a display of information about NetBIOS over TCP/IP hosts. Here are some of 
the tools, or switches, you can use: 

-a 
-A 
-c 
-n 
-r 
-R 
-S 
-s 

All nbtstat switches are case sensitive. Lowercase switches deal with NetBIOS names of hosts, and 
the uppercase ones deal with the TCP/IP addresses of hosts. 
The –a Switch 
Making use of the –a switch will get you a remote machine’s NetBIOS name table consisting of a 
list of every NetBIOS name the machine from which you’ve deployed the switch knows of. The – 
a switch produced the output from server S1 shown in Figure 5.22. 

So, using this switch arranges the NetBIOS name-table information in table form with output in 
four columns. The Name column displays the NetBIOS name entry for the remote host machine. 
 
Figure 5.22: Sample output of the nbtstat –a command (Lammle, 2022) 
 
The next column gives you a unique two-digit hexadecimal identiﬁer for the NetBIOS 
name. This identiﬁer represents the last byte of the NetBIOS name depicted in the Name 
column, and it’s important because the same name could actually be used several times for the 
same machine. Plus, it identiﬁes the speciﬁc service on the particular host that the name is 
referencing. Table 5.5 and Table 5.6 list the hexadecimal identiﬁers for unique and group 
hostnames. 

The Type column refers to (surprise) the type of NetBIOS name being referenced. Unique 
NetBIOS names refer to individual hosts, and group names refer to logical groupings of 
workstations—either domains or workgroups. The Status column gives you information about 
the status of the host’s NetBIOS even if it hasn’t been registered with the rest of the network.