5.3.2 ipconﬁg, ifconﬁg, and ip 

The utilities known as ipconﬁg (in Windows) and ifconﬁg/ip (in Unix/Linux/Mac) will display the 
current conﬁguration of TCP/IP on a given workstation—including the current IP address, DNS 
conﬁguration, conﬁguration, and default gateway. In the following sections, I will show you how 
to use both. 
If you are running traceroute and see repeating addresses and TTL time-outs, you probably have 
a routing loop. 

Note 
In addition to traceroute and tracert, which show the path of an IPv4 packet, you can use tracert 
-6 for a Windows trace, traceroute6 for MAC and Linux/Unix, and traceroute -6 for Cisco routers 
to trace an IPv6 packet through an internetwork. 

5.3.2.1 ipconﬁg Utility 

With the new Mac, Windows 10, and Windows Server 2019 operating systems, you can now see 
the IPv6 conﬁguration because IPv6 is enabled by default. The output of the ipconﬁg command 
provides the basic routed protocol information on your machine. From a DOS prompt, type 
ipconﬁg, and you’ll see something like this: 
 
Figure 5.5: ipconﬁg output (Lammle, 2022) 
 
Wow, there sure are a lot of options in this output compared to the output for earlier versions of 
Windows! First, what’s up with all these interfaces showing? I only have two—one Ethernet and 
one wireless. You can see that my Ethernet adapter shows up ﬁrst, and it has an IP address, a 
mask, and a default gateway plus an IPv6 address and a DNS suﬃx. The next conﬁgured interface 
is the wireless local area network (LAN) adapter, which has an IP address, a mask, a default 
gateway, an IPv6 address, and the IPv6 default gateway as well. This IPv6 default gateway address 
is simply my router advertising that it runs IPv6 and saying, “I am the way out of the local LAN!” 
Just in case the ipconﬁg command doesn’t provide enough information for you, try the ipconﬁg 
/all command—talk about details. Here’s the beginning of that output: 
 
Figure 5.6: ipconﬁg output for all part 1 (Lammle, 2022)  
 
Figure 5.7: ipconﬁg output for all part 2 (Lammle, 2022) 
 
As you can see, it’s more of the same—a whole lot more. The most important thing I want you to 
notice is that I’ve received the hardware information about each interface, including the Media 
Access Control (MAC) address. Also signiﬁcant is that I can see the Dynamic Host Conﬁguration 
Protocol (DHCP) lease times and DNS addresses now. But why stop here? There are two more 
valuable options you need to use with the ipconﬁg command. They are /release and /renew. 
When you change networks, you need to get the IP address of that subnet and/or virtual LAN 
(VLAN). Windows 10 works most of the time without doing anything, but sometimes I do have to 
renew the IP conﬁguration when changing networks. But that’s easy—just type ipconﬁg /renew 
from a command prompt, and if you’re connected to a DHCP server that’s available, you’ll then 
magically receive an IP address. Now, if it still doesn’t work, you’ll need to release and renew your 
TCP/IP settings. 