Z-Wave is a smart home protocol that provides two basic types of functions: signalling to manage 
wireless connections, and control to transmit data and commands between devices. A Z-Wave 
network controller, called a hub, receives commands from a smartphone or computer and relays 
the commands to various smart devices on its network. Devices on the network are identiﬁed by 
a 1-byte Node ID, and the entire network has a 4-byte Network ID. Multiple Z-Wave networks can 
coexist in the same space because the Network ID prevents communication outside of a device’s 
Z-Wave network. Z-Wave transmissions oﬀer a range of up to 100 m per hop, and they can tolerate 
up to four hops through repeaters. Z-Wave–controlled devices can serve as repeaters on a Z-Wave 
mesh network. 
 
Figure 6.4 Z-Wave (Albert, 2025) 
 
Bluetooth, deﬁned by IEEE 802.15.1 speciﬁcations, is named after a medieval king of Denmark 
named Harald Bluetooth, who fought to merge several Danish tribes under a single government. 
Like its namesake, Bluetooth technology unites separate entities such as mobile devices, PCs, and 
accessories under a single communications standard. Bluetooth operates in the radio band of 2.4 
GHz to 2.4835 GHz and hops between frequencies within that band (up to 1600 hops/sec) to help 
reduce interference. Most Bluetooth devices require close proximity to form a connection, with 
the exact distance requirements depending on the class of Bluetooth device 
IR (infrared) technology has found new life in the world of IoT, where it’s used primarily to collect 
data through various sensors. IR is also commonly used in remote controls such as the one that 
comes with the projector shown in Figure 6.5. Infrared standards are deﬁned by the IrDA (Infrared 
Data Association) at the website irda.org. IR exists just below the spectrum that is visible to the 
human eye, with longer wavelengths than red light. Because it’s a form of light, IR requires a 
nearly unobstructed LOS (line of sight) between the transmitter and receiver, some devices use a 
scatter mode that reﬂects IR signals oﬀ nearby surfaces to circumvent some obstacles, but IR 
cannot pass through these obstacles. This limitation can be used to increase the security of IR 
transmissions. An LED in a device creates the invisible radiation, which is then detected by a 
sensor’s semiconductor material that converts the signals into electrical current. IR sensors are 
used to collect information such as the following: 

• Presence or level of liquid, based on the quality of a reﬂection 
• Variations in reﬂections from skin caused by variations in blood ﬂow, which can be used 
to monitor heart rate 
• Proximity to the device, which can trigger an action such as steering a vehicle away from 
an obstacle 
• Commands from a control device, such as a game or TV remote control 
 
Figure 6.5 (West, 2002)  