6.12 Security Threats to Wi-Fi Networks 
Wireless transmissions are particularly susceptible to eavesdropping. Several additional security 
threats to wireless networks are discussed in the following list: 
• War driving: A hacker searches for unprotected wireless networks by driving around with 
a laptop or smartphone conﬁgured to receive and capture wireless data transmissions. 
(The term is derived from the term war dialling, which is a similar tactic involving old, dial- 
up modems.) War driving is surprisingly eﬀective for obtaining private information. Years 
ago, the hacker community publicized the vulnerabilities of a well-known store chain, 
which were discovered while war driving. The retailer used wireless cash registers to help 
customers make purchases when the regular, wired cash registers were busy. However, 
the wireless cash registers transmitted purchase information, including credit card 
numbers and customer names, to network APs in cleartext (in other words, unencrypted). 
By chance, a person in the parking lot who was running a protocol analyzer program on 
his laptop obtained several credit card numbers in a very short time. The person alerted 
the retailer to the security risk (rather than exploiting the information he gathered). After 
the retailer discovered its error, it abandoned the use of wireless cash registers until a 
thorough evaluation of its data security could be conducted. 
 

• War chalking: Once hackers discover vulnerable access points, they make this information 
public by drawing symbols with chalk on the sidewalk or a wall within range of a wireless 
network. The symbols, patterned after marks that hobos devised to indicate hospitable 
places for food or rest, indicate the access point’s SSID and whether it’s secured. 
Alternatively, many websites oﬀer maps of these open networks, as reported by war 
drivers. 
Evil twin: Clients running Linux, macOS, or a modern version of Windows will ﬁrst attempt 
to associate with a known access point. This feature can result in network devices 
connecting to rogue access points, or access points oﬀering a connection to the Internet 
without the authorization of the area’s network administrator. One type of rogue access 
point, an evil twin, can be used to trick a device into connecting to the wrong network by 
broadcasting the same SSID as the authorized network or another SSID that appears just 
as legitimate to the user. Suppose another user brings their own AP to a café and its signal 
is twice as strong as the café’s AP. Your laptop will automatically recognize the other user’s 
stronger AP as the best option. If the user has conﬁgured their AP with the same SSID as 
the cafés, and if you’ve conﬁgured your laptop to trust that SSID, your laptop might 
complete association to this evil twin AP without your knowledge. The person controlling 
the evil twin could then steal your data or gain access to another network that trusts your 
system. Note that a user can create a rogue access point inadvertently, too for example, 
by bringing an AP to work, using software to turn a workstation into an AP, or creating a 
hotspot with a smartphone. As a network technician, you should check regularly for evil 
twins or other rogue access points within your network’s geographical area. Especially be 
on the lookout for access points that show a stronger signal than your corporate AP 
because Windows lists SSIDs by signal strength, and users are accustomed to selecting the 
SSID at the top of the list. 
• WPA attack: These attacks, also called WPA cracking, involve an interception of the 
network keys communicated between clients and access points. 
• WPS attack: WPS (Wi-Fi Protected Setup) is a user-friendly but not very secure security 
setting available on some consumer-grade APs. Part of the security involves requiring a 
PIN (personal identiﬁcation number) to access the AP’s settings or to associate a new 
device with the network. The problem is that the PIN can be easily cracked through a brute 
force attack, which means simply trying numerous possible character combinations to ﬁnd 
the correct combination. This gives the attacker access to the network’s WPA2 key. The 
PIN feature in WPS should be disabled if possible. 