Option             Description 
-a                 Displays all connections and listening ports. 
-b                 Displays the executable involved in creating each connection or listening port. 
                   In some cases, well-known executables host multiple independent 
                   components, and in these cases the sequence of components involved in 
                   creating the connection or listening port is displayed. Note that this option 
                   can be time consuming and will fail unless you have suﬃcient permissions. 
-e                 Displays Ethernet statistics. This may be combined with the -s 
                   option. 
-f                 Displays fully qualiﬁed domain names (FQDNs) for foreign addresses. 
-n                 Displays addresses and port numbers in numerical form. 
-o                 Displays the owning process ID associated with each connection. 
-p proto 
Shows connections for the protocol speciﬁed by proto; proto may be TCP, 
UDP, TCPv6, or UDPv6. If used with the -s option to display per-protocol 
statistics, proto may be IP, IPv6, ICMP, ICMPv6, TCP, TCPv6, UDP, or UDPv6. 
-r 
Displays the routing table. 
-s 
Displays per-protocol statistics. By default, statistics are shown for IP, IPv6, 
ICMP, ICMPv6, TCP, TCPv6, UDP, and UDPv6; the -p option may be used to 
specify a subset of the default. 
-t 
Displays the current connection oﬄoad state. Redisplays selected statistics, 
pausing interval seconds between each display. Press Ctrl+C to stop 
redisplaying statistics. If -t is omitted, netstat will print the current 
conﬁguration information once. 
TABLE 5.7 netstat options 
Simply type netstat followed by a space and then the particular switch you want to use. 
Some switches have options, but no matter what, the syntax is basically the same. 
 
The –a Switch 
When you use the –a switch, the netstat utility displays all TCP/IP connections and all UDP 
connections. Figure 5.29 shows sample output produced by the netstat –a command. 
 
Figure 5.29: Sample output of the netstat –a command (Lammle, 2022) 
 
The last two entries in Figure 5.29 show that the protocol is UDP and give the source-port 
nicknames nbname and nbdatagram. These are the well-known port numbers of 137 and 138, 
respectively. These port numbers are commonly seen on networks that broadcast the NetBIOS 
name of a workstation on the TCP/IP network. You can tell that this is a broadcast because the 
destination address is listed as *:* (meaning “any address, any port”). 
The State column in Figure 5.29 has no entry for the UDP rows because UDP is not a connection- 
oriented protocol and, therefore, has no connection state. The most common use for the –a 
switch is to check the status of a TCP/IP connection that appears to be hung. You can determine 
if the connection is simply busy or is actually hung and no longer responding. 