6.7 802.11 Innovations 

Although some of their physical layer services vary, all the 802.11 standards use half-duplex 
signalling. In other words, an antenna on a wireless node using one of the 802.11 techniques can 
either transmit or receive, but it cannot do both simultaneously unless the node has more than 
one transceiver installed. Some wireless access points can simulate full-duplex signalling by using 
multiple frequencies. But the transmission for each antenna is still only half-duplex. 
Despite this physical limitation, beginning with 802.11n, several innovations have been 
implemented that contribute to making later 802.11 standards much faster and much more 
reliable: 

• Channel bonding: Beginning with 802.11n, two adjacent 20-MHz channels can be combined, or 
bonded, to make a 40-MHz channel, as shown in Figure 6.9. In fact, bonding two 20-MHz channels 
more than doubles the bandwidth available in a single 20-MHz channel. That’s because the small 
amount of bandwidth normally reserved as buﬀers against interference at the top and bottom of 
the 20-MHz channels can be assigned to carry data instead. Because the 5-GHz band contains 
more channels and is less crowded (at least, for now), it’s better suited to channel bonding than 
the 2.4-GHz band. The newer standards take channel bonding to a higher level by supporting 20- 
, 40-, and 80-MHz channels, with optional use of 160-MHz channels 

Figure 6.9 Channel bonding (West, 2002) 
 
• MIMO (multiple input-multiple output): First available in 802.11n, multiple antennas on the 
access point and on a client device process incoming or outgoing data simultaneously. Figure 6- 
10 shows an 802.11n/802.11ac dual-band SOHO router with three antennas. There are some 
multiantenna 802.11g devices available, but these antennas take turns processing the data 
stream. 802.11n/ac devices, however, simultaneously process data through two or more 
antennas. As you learned earlier, wireless signals propagate in a multipath fashion. Therefore, 
multiple signals cannot be expected to arrive at the same receiver in concert. MIMO uses this 
phenomenon to its advantage by adjusting either the phase or amplitude of signals from each 
antenna. 
 
This improves the transmission in two ways: 
o Signal quality and range: Spatial diversity of the diﬀerent antennas eliminates noise in 
the transmission, which also increases the distance it can eﬀectively travel. Each 
antenna receives a slightly diﬀerent version of the signal, and the strengths of each 
signal are summed. 
o Signal capacity: Spatial multiplexing adds a new data stream between each additional pair 
of antennas, thereby increasing the amount of data being transmitted and received. This 
eﬀect increases linearly with the addition of each pair of antennas. 

• MU-MIMO (multiuser MIMO): Related to MIMO, MU-MIMO is an even newer technology 
implemented by 802.11ac Wave 2 and newer products that allows multiple antennas to service 
multiple clients simultaneously. The antennas use diﬀerent spatial streams that rely on clients 
being positioned relatively far apart from one another. This feature reduces congestion and 
thereby contributes to even faster data transmission. As with MIMO, however, a MU-MIMO 
access point can only be used at full capacity when the involved client devices also support MU- 
MIMO technology. MU-MIMO is currently only available for downstream (AP to client) 
transmissions and is rarely implemented in indoor environments where clients are located in 
proximity to each other. 
• OFDMA (Orthogonal Frequency Division Multiple Access): Improving upon an earlier 
technology called OFDM, OFDMA supports more eﬃcient multiuser functionality for 802.11ax 
devices. In essence, OFDMA allows the 802.11ax AP to subdivide each channel into smaller 
frequency allocations for each client, such as 2 MHz or 4 MHz of each 20-MHz channel. The AP 
can then transmit multiple small frames to multiple clients at one time using parts of the channel.