3.7.5 Single Sign On 
Single sign-on (SSO), when the user logs into the domain, the domain controller issues them an 
access token. This access token contains a list of all the resources, namely folders, drives, 
websites, and databases, to which they should have access. This mitigates users having to 
remember multiple passwords, which may lead them to do unsafe security practices. 

3.7.6 LDAP 
A directory service is a database designed to centralize data management regarding network 
subjects and objects. A typical directory contains a hierarchy that includes users, groups, systems, 
servers, client workstations, and so on. Because the directory service contains data about users 
and other network entities, it can be used by many applications that require access to that 
information. A common directory service standard is Lightweight Directory Access Protocol 
(LDAP), which is based on the earlier standard X.500.

3.7.7 Kerberos 
Kerberos, created at MIT, isn’t just a protocol; it’s an entire security system that establishes a 
user’s identity when they ﬁrst log on to a system that’s running it. It employs strong encryption 
for all transactions and communication. Kerberos works by issuing tickets to users who log in. This 
synchronicity is a bit complicated to set up, although in Microsoft servers and domains, the 
process is automatic, requiring only access to a recognized time server (which Microsoft also 
operates). The real negative hits happen if you have only one Kerberos authentication server—if 
it goes down, no one can log into the network. When running Kerberos, having redundant servers 
is vital. You should also know that because all users’ secret keys are stored in one centralized 
database, if that’s compromised, you have a security tsunami on your hands. Luckily, these keys 
are stored in an encrypted state. Figure 16.3 shows Kerberos in action. 

3.7.8 Local Authentication 
When users authenticate to their computer, the authentication can be either to a domain or to 
the local machine. When local authentication is performed, the user’s local account and password 
are veriﬁed with the local user database 

3.7.9 802.1X 
802.1X is a network access control that deﬁnes a standard for centralized, port-based 
authentication. It operates with Supplicant, authenticator, and authentication servers. The 
supplicant is the device trying to connect to the network, while the authenticator is the network 
device that allows the connection, and the authentication server is the system that validates user 
credentials. 
 
Figure 3.10: 802.1X 