6.11 Other Security Conﬁgurations 
Some additional security options you might want to enable on your wireless network include the 
following: 

• AP and antenna placement: It might seem like a simple thing but it’s important to think 
about where you place your AP in your home or business area. Placing the AP near an 
outside wall might result in a weak signal on the far side of your building but leave a strong 
signal vulnerable to attack from someone parked nearby. Positioning the AP in the center 
of its intended range increases the strength of the signal for approved users while 
reducing the likelihood that anyone outside of that area can get a strong enough signal to 
connect to the network. Also, some APs have antennas that can be positioned to 
optimize signal reach. Consider what antenna placement will give the best signal where 
you want it and reduce the strength of the signal outside your building or other intended 
range. Similarly, experiment with various power levels to determine the needed 
transmission power to reach your intended range while not overly extending your range outside 
the area you manage. 
• Geofencing: This more sophisticated security technique detects a Wi-Fi client’s 
geographical position and activates resources or access according to that location. For 
example, a shopping mall or store might use geofencing to oﬀer customers Internet access 
and targeted marketing information (such as coupons) while not making these resources 
available to people outside a deﬁned area. Deploying a mesh network of APs makes it 
possible to track a Wi-Fi client device physical movement throughout the network. 
• Guest network: Many establishments and homeowners, for that matter create an isolated 
guest network through their Wi-Fi router/access point. The guest network has a separate 
SSID and passphrase and can be managed with diﬀerent rules or time restrictions. This is a 
smart security precaution, as it gives guests access to Internet service through an open 
network without opening the doors to the entire LAN on that router. Parents, also, might 
want to give their children use of an SSID with more limited network access to enforce 
household rules regarding Internet use. 
• Wireless client isolation: This technique is like a guest network but simpler. Wireless client 
isolation allows a wireless client onto the network but imposes ﬁrewall rules to restrict that 
client’s ability to communicate with only the default gateway, not other devices on the 
network. Like with a guest network, wireless clients can communicate with the Internet but 
have no access to other network resources. 
• Captive portal: If you do provide a guest network, either at home or at a business, be sure to 
set up a captive portal. This is the ﬁrst page a new client sees in the browser when 
connecting to the guest network, and it usually requires the user to agree to a set of terms and 
conditions before gaining further access to the guest network. 
The captive portal should remind users of the following details: 
o They are connecting to a network that does not provide user authentication or data 
encryption. This means data is not secure when transmitted over this connection. 
o They should be careful about what data they transmit, even over email, while using the 
guest network. 
o They should take extra care to avoid engaging in any illegal activity through the network 
connection, as that activity could be traced back to your public IP address. 

Figure 6.14 Adjust a network connection’s security settings (West, 2002) 