6.6 Signal Propagation 
Propagation refers to the way in which a wave travels from one point to another. Ideally, a wireless 
signal would travel directly in a straight line from its transmitter to its intended receiver. This 
straight-line propagation, known as LOS (line of sight), maximizes distance for energy used and 
results in reception of the clearest possible signal. However, because the atmosphere is an 
unguided medium and the path between a transmitter and a receiver is not always clear of 
obstacles, wireless signals do not usually follow a straight line. 
 
When an obstacle stands in a signal’s way, the signal might pass through the object, it might be 
absorbed by the object, or it might be subject to any of the following phenomena, depending 
upon the object’s geometry and its constituent materials: 
Attenuation, as with wired signals, wireless signals also experience attenuation. After a signal is 
transmitted, the farther it moves away from the transmission source, the more it weakens. Like 
wired transmission, wireless signals can be ampliﬁed by increasing the power of the transmission 
or extended by repeating the signal from a closer broadcast point using a repeater (also called a 
wireless range extender) 

Refraction: As a wave travels into and through a diﬀerent transmission medium, such as when 
traveling through glass or other solids, the wave’s direction, speed, and wavelength are altered, 
or refracted. Imagine how light waves are altered when entering the water in a pool. If you’re 
underwater looking back at the surface, the image you see is distorted. 
Reﬂection: The wave encounters an obstacle and reﬂects, or bounces back, toward its source. A 
wireless signal will bounce oﬀ objects whose surface dimensions are large compared with the 
signal’s average wavelength (the distance from the crest of one wave to the crest of the next 
wave). In the context of a wireless LAN, whose wavelengths are approximately 12 cm, such objects 
include walls, ﬂoors, ceilings, and the Earth anything with a large, ﬂat surface. In addition, signals 
reﬂect more readily oﬀ conductive materials, such as metal, than oﬀ insulators, such as concrete. 
Scattering: When a wireless signal encounters an object that has small surface dimensions 
compared with the signal’s wavelength, it’s diﬀused or scattered in multiple directions. Scattering 
is also related to the roughness of the surface a wireless signal encounter. The rougher the 
surface, the more likely a signal is to scatter when it hits that surface. In an oﬃce building, objects 
such as chairs, books, plants, and computers cause scattering of wireless LAN signals. For signals 
traveling outdoors, precipitation such as rain and mist also cause scattering. 
 
Figure 6.7 Multipath Signal Propagation (West, 2002) 