6.10 Wi-ﬁ Network Security 

Organizations use one or more of the 802.11 protocol standards on their WLANs. By default, the 
802.11 standard does not by itself oﬀer any security. The client only needs to know the access 
point’s SSID, which many access points broadcast. Network administrators may prevent their 
access points from broadcasting the SSIDs, making them harder to detect. However, this does not 
provide true security. 
Two solutions to this problem are authentication and encryption: 
• Authentication: Allows a wireless client to log on to the network, either by providing the correct 
password for the SSID or by providing user credentials that might be processed by an 
authentication server. The authentication process can be somewhat strengthened with MAC 
ﬁltering, or MAC address ﬁltering, which prevents the AP from authenticating any device whose 
MAC address is not listed by the network administrator. (MAC ﬁltering can also be instituted on a 
switch.) But it can be time consuming to maintain a current list of all approved MAC addresses, 
and, as you’ve seen, MAC addresses are easily impersonated.

• Encryption algorithms: Scramble data transmitted over the airwaves into a format that cannot 
easily be interpreted if the signal is intercepted. The purpose of encryption is to keep information 
private. Many forms of wireless encryption exist, with some being more secure than others. 
  
WPA (Wi-Fi Protected Access) 

A signiﬁcant disadvantage to WEP is that it uses the same network key for all clients and the key 
is static, which means it won’t change without manual intervention. Due to this inherent 
insecurity, a replacement security technology was developed, called WPA (Wi-Fi Protected 
Access), which dynamically assigns every transmission its own key. 802.11i incorporates an 
encryption key generation and management scheme known as TKIP (Temporal Key Integrity - 
Protocol), pronounced tee-kip, to improve security for legacy WEP-based devices. TKIP 
accomplished three signiﬁcant improvements: 
• Message integrity uses a message integrity code, called Michael, that ensures incoming packets 
are, in fact, coming from their declared source. This is also called packet authentication. 
• Key distribution assigns every transmission its own key. 
• Encryption Includes encryption originally provided by RC4 (Rivest Cipher 4), a now insecure 
encryption cipher that is still widely used.  