5.2.3 Plotting Univariante Histograms 
Perhaps the most common approach to visualizing a distribution is the histogram. This is the default approach in 
displot(), which uses the same underlying code as histplot(). A histogram is a bar plot where the axis representing 
the data variable is divided into a set of discrete bins and the count of observations falling within each bin is shown 
using the height of the corresponding bar. 
 
This plot immediately affords a few insights about the flipper_length_mm variable. For instance, we can see that 
the most common flipper length is about 195 mm, but the distribution appears bimodal, so this one number does 
not represent the data well. 
 
Choosing the bin size 
 
The size of the bins is an important parameter, and using the wrong bin size can mislead by obscuring important 
features of the data or by creating apparent features out of random variability. By default, displot()/histplot() 
choose a default bin size based on the variance of the data and the number of observations. But you should not be 
over-reliant on such automatic approaches, because they depend on particular assumptions about the structure of 
your data. It is always advisable to check that your impressions of the distribution are consistent across different bin 
sizes. To choose the size directly, set the binwidth parameter.

In other circumstances, it may make more sense to specify the number of bins, rather than their size. 

Conditioning on other variables 
 
Once you understand the distribution of a variable, the next step is often to ask whether features of that distribution 
differ across other variables in the dataset. For example, what accounts for the bimodal distribution of flipper lengths 
that we saw above? displot() and histplot() provide support for conditional subsetting via the hue semantic. Assigning 
a variable to hue will draw a separate histogram for each of its unique values and distinguish them by color. 
Another option is “dodge” the bars, which moves them horizontally and reduces their width. This ensures that there 
are no overlaps and that the bars remain comparable in terms of height. But it only works well when the categorical 
variable has a small number of levels. 
 
Kernel density estimation 
 
A histogram aims to approximate the underlying probability density function that generated the data by binning and 
counting observations. Kernel density estimation (KDE) presents a different solution to the same problem. Rather 
than using discrete bins, a KDE plot smooths the observations with a Gaussian kernel, producing a continuous density 
estimate 

 