The most useful feature offered by the figure-level functions is that they can easily create figures with multiple 
subplots. For example, instead of stacking the three distributions for each species of penguins in the same 
axes, we can “facet” them by plotting each distribution across the columns of the figure: 
 
The figure-level functions wrap their axes-level counterparts and pass the kind-specific keyword arguments 
(such as the bin size for a histogram) down to the underlying function. That means they are no less flexible, 
but there is a downside: the kind-specific parameters don’t appear in the function signature or docstrings. 
Some of their features might be less discoverable, and you may need to look at two different pages of the 
documentation before understanding how to achieve a specific goal. 
Axes-Level Functions 
  
The axes-level functions are written to act like drop-in replacements for matplotlib functions. While they add 
axis labels and legends automatically, they don’t modify anything beyond the axes that they are drawn into. 
That means they can be composed into arbitrarily-complex matplotlib figures with predictable results. 

The axes-level functions call matplotlib.pyplot.gca() internally, which hooks into the matplotlib state-machine 
interface so that they draw their plots on the “currently-active” axes. But they additionally accept an ax= 
argument, which integrates with the object-oriented interface and lets you specify exactly where each plot 
should go. 
 

Combining multiple views on the data 
  
Two important plotting functions in seaborn don’t fit cleanly into the classification scheme discussed above. 
These functions, jointplot() and pairplot(), employ multiple kinds of plots from different modules to represent 
multiple aspects of a dataset in a single figure. Both plots are figure-level functions and create figures with 
multiple subplots by default. But they use different objects to manage the figure: JointGrid and PairGrid, 
respectively. 
  
jointplot() plots the relationship or joint distribution of two variables while adding marginal axes that show the 
univariate distribution of each one separately: 

pairplot() is similar — it combines joint and marginal views — but rather than focusing on a single relationship, 
it visualizes every pairwise combination of variables simultaneously. 
Behind the scenes, these functions are using axes-level functions that you have already met (scatterplot() and 
kdeplot()), and they also have a kind parameter that lets you quickly swap in a different representation. 