5.1.1 Different Categories of plot in Seaborn  
 
Plots are basically used for visualizing the relationship between variables. Those variables can be either 
completely numerical or a category like a group, class, or division. Seaborn divides the plot into the below  
categories. 
 
Relational plots: This plot is used to understand the relation between two variables. 
Categorical plots: This plot deals with categorical variables and how they can be visualized. 
Distribution plots: This plot is used for examining univariate and bivariate distributions 
Regression plots: The regression plots in Seaborn are primarily intended to add a visual guide that helps to 
emphasize patterns in a dataset during exploratory data analyses. 
Matrix plots: A matrix plot is an array of scatterplots. 
Multi-plot grids: It is a useful approach to draw multiple instances of the same plot on different subsets of the 
dataset. 

An example of what seaborn can do, 

Output 
 
A few things have happened here. Let’s go through them one by one, 
Seaborn is the only library we need to import for this simple example. By convention, it is imported with the shorthand 
sns. 
Behind the scenes, seaborn uses matplotlib to draw its plots. For interactive work, it’s recommended to use a 
Jupyter/IPython interface in matplotlib mode, or else you’ll have to call matplotlib.pyplot.show() when you want to 
see the plot. 
Beyond the default theme, there are several other options, and you can independently control the style and scaling 
of the plot to quickly translate your work between presentation contexts (e.g., making a version of your figure that 
will have readable fonts when projected during a talk). If you like the matplotlib defaults or prefer a different theme, 
you can skip this step and still use the seaborn plotting functions. 
Most code in the docs will use the load_dataset() function to get quick access to an example dataset. There’s 
nothing special about these datasets: they are just pandas dataframes, and we could have loaded them with 
pandas.read_csv() or built them by hand. 
This plot shows the relationship between five variables in the tips dataset using a single call to the seaborn function 
relplot(). Notice how we provided only the names of the variables and their roles in the plot. Unlike when using 
matplotlib directly, it wasn’t necessary to specify attributes of the plot elements in terms of the color values or marker 
codes 