5.2 VISUALIZING CATEGORICAL DATA 
 
In seaborn, there are several different ways to visualize a relationship involving categorical data. Similar to the 
relationship between relplot() and either scatterplot() or lineplot(), there are two ways to make these plots. There 
are a number of axes-level functions for plotting categorical data in different ways and a figure-level interface, 
catplot(), that gives unified higher-level access to them. 
 
It’s helpful to think of the different categorical plot kinds as belonging to three different families, which we’ll discuss 
in detail below. They are: 

Categorical scatterplots: 
• stripplot() (with kind="strip"; the default) 
• swarmplot() (with kind="swarm") 

Categorical distribution plots: 
• boxplot() (with kind="box") 
• violinplot() (with kind="violin") 
• boxenplot() (with kind="boxen") 
Categorical estimate plots: 
• pointplot() (with kind="point") 
• barplot() (with kind="bar") 
• countplot() (with kind="count") 
   
These families represent the data using different levels of granularity. When deciding which to use, you’ll have to 
think about the question that you want to answer. The unified API makes it easy to switch between different kinds 
and see your data from several perspectives. 
  
Categorical Scatter Plots 
The default representation of the data in catplot() uses a scatterplot. There are actually two different categorical 
scatter plots in seaborn. They take different approaches to resolving the main challenge in representing categorical 
data with a scatter plot, which is that all of the points belonging to one category would fall on the same position along 
the axis corresponding to the categorical variable. The approach used by stripplot(), which is the default “kind” in 
catplot() is to adjust the positions of points on the categorical axis with a small amount of random “jitter”. 

The jitter parameter controls the magnitude of jitter or disables it altogether: 
The second approach adjusts the points along the categorical axis using an algorithm that prevents them from 
overlapping. It can give a better representation of the distribution of observations, although it only works well for 
relatively small datasets. This kind of plot is sometimes called a “beeswarm” and is drawn in seaborn by 
swarmplot(), which is activated by setting kind="swarm" in catplot() 

Similar to the relational plots, it’s possible to add another dimension to a categorical plot by using a hue semantic. 
(The categorical plots do not currently support size or style semantics). Each different categorical plotting function 
handles the hue semantic differently. For the scatter plots, it is only necessary to change the color of the points. 
 
Unlike with numerical data, it is not always obvious how to order the levels of the categorical variable along its axis. 
In general, the seaborn categorical plotting functions try to infer the order of categories from the data. If your data 
have a pandas Categorical datatype, then the default order of the categories can be set there. If the variable passed 
to the categorical axis looks numerical, the levels will be sorted.  