Chapter 5: Data Visualisation with Seaborn 
 
5.1 Introduction to Seaborn 
Data Visualization is a technique allowing Data Scientists to transform raw data into graphs and charts. Such 
illustrations facilitate the reading and understanding of data, which is why Data visualization is very useful. 
There are many “no-code” tools to create data visualizations: Tableau, Power BI, and ChartBlocks… however, as an 
alternative, it is also possible to opt for the Python language. 
  
This requires programming skills but offers complete freedom. Using Python, it is possible to manipulate, transform 
and create data visualizations. Many data scientists are turning to this solution. 
One of the reasons why Python is the best choice for is its vast ecosystem of libraries. There are many Python 
libraries for manipulating data: numpy, pandas, matplotlib, and TensorFlow. 
While Matplotlib is very popular for creating data visualizations, it can be complex to use. 
Seaborn is a library for creating statistical graphs in Python. It is based on Matplotlib and integrates with Pandas’ 
structures.This library is as powerful as Matplotlib but brings simplicity and new features. It allows us to quickly 
explore and understand data. Entire data frames can be captured, and the internal functions for semantic mapping 
and statistical aggregation allow the data to be converted into graphical visualizations. 
 
All the complexity of Matplotlib is abstracted by Seaborn. However, it is possible to create graphs that meet all your 
needs and requirements.The Seaborn library offers several major advantages. It provides different types of 
visualizations. Its syntax is reduced and it offers very attractive default themes.It is an ideal tool for statistical 
visualization. It is used to summarize data in visualizations and data distribution. 
 
In addition, Seaborn is better integrated than Matplotlib for working with Pandas data frames. It is an extension 
of Matplotlib to create beautiful graphs using Python through a more direct set of methods.Seaborn provides 
different styles and default color palettes to create more attractive graphics. The different types of 
visualizations allow you to highlight the relationships between data. These can be numerical variables or 
groups, classes, or divisions. 
  
Relational graphs are used to understand the relationships between two variables, while categorical graphs 
are used to visualize variables categorized by category. 
  
Distribution graphs are used to examine univariate or bivariate distributions. Regression graphs add a visual 
guide to highlight patterns in a data set for exploratory analyses. 
  
Seaborn helps you explore and understand your data. Its plotting functions operate on dataframes and arrays 
containing whole datasets and internally perform the necessary semantic mapping and statistical aggregation 
to produce informative plots. Its dataset-oriented, declarative API lets you focus on what the different 
elements of your plots mean, rather than on the details of how to draw the graphs. 
 