Chapter 2: Data Transformation with Pandas 
 
2.1 Working with different Data Types 

2.1.0 Strings 
Pandas provide various string methods to manipulate string data in DataFrame columns. These methods are accessed 
through the .str accessor. 
 
In the example above, we converted all the values in the Name column to a string using .str and then converted these 
strings to uppercase. Other string functions include lower(), capitalise(), title(), etc. You can learn more about the 
different 
functions 
here: 
https://pandas.pydata.org/docs/reference/api/pandas.Series.str.upper.html#pandas.Series.str.upper 
 
2.1.1 DateTime 
You can convert string representations of dates into DateTime objects, perform arithmetic operations, and extract 
components like year, month, day, etc. (See Example 2.2) 
 
2.1.2 Categorical Data 
Categorical data represents data that can take on a limited, fixed number of possible values. When you convert a 
column to a categorical data type in Pandas, it creates a unique integer code for each unique value in the column and 
stores the actual category labels separately.  

In the output for Example 2.3, you can see that the 'Category' column has been converted to a categorical data type, 
and the unique categories are labelled as 'A', 'B', and 'C'. However, when we access the category codes, we see that 
each category is represented by a unique integer code (0 for 'A', 1 for 'B', and 2 for 'C'). 

2.2 Create New Columns 

2.2.1 Vectorised Operation 
 
Vectorized operations allow you to apply functions to entire columns without explicit loops directly. This is efficient 
and typically faster than other methods. 

2.2.2 apply() 
 
The apply() method applies a function along the specified axis of the DataFrame. You can define your custom function 
or use built-in functions. 

2.2.3 lambda Function: 
 
Lambda functions are concise and can be used inline. They are handy for simple transformations. 

2.2.4 assign() 
 
The assign() method creates new columns in a DataFrame and returns a new DataFrame with the additional columns.  
 