TOPIC FOUR | INPUT AND OUTPUT  

4.1 DEFINING INPUT   
  
Input is any data or instructions you enter into the memory of the computer. Once input is in 
memory, the CPU can access it and process the input into output.  
There are four types of inputs:   

 Data is a collection of unorganized facts that can include words, numbers and pictures. A  
computer manipulates and processes data into information  
 Program, is a series of instructions that tells a computer how to perform the tasks necessary 
to process data into information  
 Command, is an instruction given to a computer program. A command is issued when  
typing in a keyword or pressing any special keys on the keyboard  
 User response, is an instruction you give to the computer by replying to the question posed 
by the computer program, such as Do you want to save the changes made?
   
4.1.1 Input Devices  
  
An input device is any hard ware device that allows you to enter data, programs or commands, and 
user responses into the computer. Input devices include keyboard, pointing devices, scanners, 
reading devices, and digital cameras, audio and video input devices.  

 Keyboard   
It is the primary input devices on the computer. You enter data into the computer by pressing the 
keys on the keyboard. An ergonomic keyboard has a design that reduces the chance of repetitive 
strain injuries (RSIs) of wrist and hand. Recall that the goal of ergonomics is to incorporate comfort, 
efficiency, and safety in the design of the workplace. Even keyboards that are not ergonomically 
designed attempt to offer a user more comfort by including a wrist rest. A gaming keyboard is a 
keyboard designed specifically for users who enjoy playing games on the computer. Gaming 
keyboards typically include programmable keys so that gamers can customize the keyboard to the 
game being played. 

There are different types of keyboards for Personal Computers, Handheld Computers and 
Computer appliances. 

 Enhanced Keyboard: This is a normal keyboard for personal computers having 12 functions 
keys on the top, 2 ctrl keys, 2 alt keys etc.  
 Cordless Keyboard: This is a battery-powered device that transmits data using wireless 
technology  
 Inbuilt Keyboard: This is a like enhanced keyboard but it is built in for Laptops, Notebooks 
etc  
 Portable Keyboard: This is a pocket sized portable keyboard, which can attach and remove 
from a handheld computer. 

 Pointing Device 
A pointing device is any input device that allows you to control a pointer on the screen. In a 
graphical user interface a pointer is a small symbol on the screen.  

Types of pointing devices:   
  
 Mouse is an input device used to control the movement of the pointer. The top of the mouse 
has one to four buttons, and some have a wheel on it and the bottom of the mouse is flat and 
contains a multi – directional mechanism usually a small ball.

As the mouse is moved over a horizontal surface a pointer moves on the computer screen. In most 
programs you will use the left mouse button to make a selection. The right mouse button is used 
to bring up a context-sensitive submenu of special commands.

Types of Mice
PS/2 Mouse – the PS/2 connector used by this type of mouse is the same as the PS/2 connector
used by the keyboard.
Serial Mouse – this type of mouse connects to the System Unit using a DB-9 female connector.
USB Mouse – a newer type of mouse connects to the System Unit using a USB port.
Cordless Mouse – another new type of mouse is the cordless type, which has no cable connecting
it to the system unit but uses infrared light to communicate with the System Unit.
us Mouse – this type of mouse is virtually obsolete. It used to come with its own expansion card
and would connect to the motherboard through this expansion card. The rationale behind the
introduction of this mouse was to free up a COM port for use with another serial device, such as
a modem. It became obsolete however because it would waste a whole expansion slot and it
would take up an Interrupt Request-channel (IRQ) 