TOPIC THREE | THE COMPUTER SYSTEM AND MOBILE DEVICES 

3.1 INTRODUCTION TO COMUTERS AND MOBILE DEVICES 
Computers is an electronic device, operating under the control of instruction stored in its own 
memory, that can accept data (input), process the data according to specified rules, produces 
information (output), and store the information for future use. A mobile device is a computing 
device small enough to hold in your hand. A mobile computer is a portable personal computer, 
designed so that a user easily can carry it from place to place. A personal computer (PC) is a mobile 
computer or desktop that can perform all of its input, processing, output, and storage activities by 
itself and is intended to be used by one person at a time. 

3.2 MOBILE COMPUTERS AND DESKTOPS 
 
Fig 3.1 
 
3.2.1 Lap tops and Tablets 
 
A laptop is also called a notebook computer, is a thin, lightweight mobile computer with a screen  
in its lid and a keyboard in its base. 
 
Fig 3.2 
Designed to fit on your lap and for easy transport and can be as powerful as the average desktop. 
They have inputs device such as keyboard, touchpad, and webcam, output devices such as screen 
and speakers, a storage device such as a hard disk and maybe optical disc drive and usually wireless 
communications capability. 

A tablet is usually smaller than a laptop but larger than a smartphone. It is thin, lightweight mobile 
computer that has a touch screen. A convertible tablet is a tablet that has a screen it its lid and a 
keyboard in its base. Resembling a letter-sized pad, a slate tablet is a type of tablet that does not 
contain a physical keyboard. Most can operate on batteries or a power supply or both. Some 
tablets include a stylus, which looks like a small ink pen, that you can use instead of a fingertip to 
enter data, make selections, or draw on a touch screen. A stylus may include buttons you can press 
to simulate clicking a mouse. As an alternative to interacting with the touch screen, some users 
prefer to purchase a separate physical keyboard that attaches to or wirelessly communicates with 
the tablet. Tablets are useful especially for taking notes in class, at meetings, at conferences, and 
in other forums where the standard laptop is not practical.
 
