4.2 DEFINITION OF OUTPUT  
  
Output is data that has been processed into a useful form called information. You may choose to 
view this information on a monitor, print it on a printer, or listen to it through speakers or headsets. 
There are four common types of outputs:  
  
• Text consists of characters that are used to create words, sentences or paragraphs  
• Graphics are digital representations of non-text information such as drawings, charts and 
photographs. Graphics can also be animated, giving them the illusion of motion  
• Audio is music speech or any other sound  
• Video consists of images that are played back at speeds that provide the appearance of full 
motion  

4.2.1 Output Devices  
  
An output device is a device that is used to get data out of the computer system to the outside 
world (the human world).  
  
 The Monitor  
The computer monitor is the most important output device. Strange as it may look, a computer 
can work without a monitor but we cannot work with a computer without a monitor.  
 Audio and Video Input  
 Audio Input is the process of entering music, speech or sound effects. To record high quality 
personal sound your computer must have a soundcard. Sound is entered via a device such as a 
microphone, tape player, or audio CD player which plugs into the port of your computer.  
 Video Input is the process of entering a full motion recording into a computer and storing 
the video onto a hard disk or some other medium. To capture the video you must plug a video 
camera into a video capture card which is an expansion card that converts analogue signal into 
digital signal so that the computer can understand.   
 Input Devices for Handheld Computers  
The primary input data method on most is the stylus. A handheld computer typically includes a 
basic stylus. With the stylus you can enter data in two ways: use an on screen keyboard or use 
hand writing recognition software.  
 Another way of input to handheld computer is you can attach a full sized keyboard to your 
handheld computer (Portable keyboard)  
 Another way is you can type on the desktop and you can transfer the data to the handheld 
computer