5.2.2 MONITORING SYSTEM ACTIVITIES  
 
Time  
Time in the CPU is divided into time slices which are measured in milliseconds. 
Each task the CPU does is assigned a certain number of time slices. When time 
expires, another task gets a turn. The first task must wait until it has another turn. 
Since time slices are so small, you usually can't tell that any sharing is going on. 
Tasks can be assigned priorities so that high priority (foreground) tasks get more 
time slices than low priority (background) tasks.   
  
Memory  
Memory must be managed also by the operating system. All those rotating turns 
of CPU use leave data waiting around in buffers. Care must be taken not to lose 
data!! One way to help out the traffic jam is to use virtual memory. This includes 
disk space as part of main memory. While it is slower to put data on a hard disk, 
it increases the amount of data that can be held in memory at one time. When 
the memory chips get full, some of the data is paged out to the hard disk. This is 
called swapping. Windows uses a swap file for this purpose. 

Input output  and  
Flow control is also part of the operating system's responsibilities. The operating 
system must manage all requests to read data from disks or tape and all writes to 
these and to printers.    

To speed up the output to printers, most operating systems now allow for print 
spooling, where the data to be printed is first put in a file. This frees up the 
processor for other work in between the times data is going to the printer. A 
printer can only handle so much data at a time. Without print spooling you'd 
have to wait for a print job to finish before you can do anything else. With it you 
can request several print jobs and go on working. The print spool will hold all the 
orders and process them in turn.

System performance  
A user or administrator can check to see whether the computer or network is 
getting overloaded. Changes could be made to the way tasks are allocated or 
maybe a shopping trip is in order! System performance would include response 
time (how long it takes for the computer to respond when data is entered) and 
CPU utilization (comparing the time the CPU is working to the time it is idle.) 

System security  
Some system security is part of the operating system, though additional software 
can add more security functions. For multiple users who are not all allowed access 
to everything, there must be a logon or login procedure where the user supplies 
a user ID and a secret password. An administrator     