4.4 THE PRINTER  
 
A printer is an output device that produces text and graphics on a physical medium such as 
paper or transparency film. Printed information is called hardcopy because the information exists 
physically and is a more permanent form of output than that presented on a display device. 
There are basically two types of printers:  
  
Impact Printers form characters and graphics on a piece of paper by striking a mechanism against 
an ink ribbon that physically contacts the paper. Because of the striking activity, impacts printers 
are generally are noisy. There are two types of impact printers i.e. Dot Matrix and Line Printers.

Non-impact Printers forms characters and graphics on a piece of paper without actually striking 
the printer. Some spray ink, while others use heat and pressure to create images. Because these 
printers do not strike the paper they are generally quieter then the impact printers. The three 
commonly used non-impact printers are Ink-jet, Photo Printers, laser, thermal printers, Portable 
Printer, Label and Postage Printers and Wireless Printers. A nonimpact printer forms characters 
and graphics on a piece of paper without actually contacting the paper. 
 
Another very important output device is the printer. The function of a printer is to take a soft 
copy (or electronic copy) on your computer and transfer it onto paper (a hard copy).    
  
Without a printer you would be able to type your curriculum vitae (CV) on the computer, for 
example, but you wouldn’t be able to carry it to show a prospective employer. Imagine! There 
are three main types of printers i.e. dot matrix, inkjet and laser.  
  
Dot matrix printers are impact printers and they work much like the typewriter. They produce 
characters on paper by impacting an inked ribbon with a ‘matrix’ of tiny pins in their print heads. 
When a particular pin in the print head receives a voltage it juts out and hits the inked ribbon, 
which in turn comes in contact with paper. When the voltage from the same pin mentioned above 
is switched off, the pin retracts and another pin is given voltage and the process goes on and on. 
Depending on the character being written on paper, different sets of pins will receive voltage and 
others will not. Transistors on the printer main board control the pins. Dot matrix printers are 
becoming less popular, while inkjet and laser printers are becoming more popular even for home 
users. Dot matrix printers are relatively cheaper to purchase and operate, but they make a lot of 
noise, produce documents of low quality, cannot print colour and are extremely slow.  

 Inkjet printers work by firing streams of ink from a cartridge directly onto paper. The  
cartridge has tiny holes called nozzles through which ink can be squirted out. The quality of the 
printout depends on the dpi ratio (the dots per inch ratio is a measure of print resolution). Both 
inkjet printers and laser printers are capable of printing high-resolution text and graphics (300 
dpi or more). 
The main advantages of inkjet printers are:  
• They make very little noise and are therefore suitable for an office environment   
• They are relatively cheaper than laser printers  
• The most popular laser printer manufacturer is Hewlett Packard.  
  
 Laser Printer: The main advantages of a laser printer are:  
• They produce a very high print quality  
• They can print colour of high quality (although colour laser printers are still very Pricey)  
• They are very quiet in their operation  
• They print with a very high printing speed 

On the other hand however, laser printers have the following notable disadvantages:  
• They are very expensive to purchase  
• They are also expensive to operate   