1.2 WHAT IS INFORMATION & COMPUTER LITERACY?  
  
Being computer literate means you have knowledge and understanding of computers and their 
uses. Information Literacy is the ability to identify what information is needed, understand how 
Accepts data (input) Processing Produces results (output)

the information is organized, identify the best sources of information for a given need, locate those 
sources, evaluate the sources critically, and share that information. It is the knowledge of 
commonly used research techniques.  

1.2.1 ADVANTAGES OF USING COMPUTERS  
The benefits of computers are possible because computers have the advantages of speed, 
reliability, consistency, storage, and communications.  
•  Speed: When data, instructions, and information flow along electronic circuits in a 
computer, they travel at incredibly fast speeds. Many computers process billions or trillions 
of operations in a single second.  
•  Reliability: The electronic components in modern computers are dependable and reliable 
because they rarely break or fail.  
•  Consistency: Given the same input and processes, a computer will produce the same results 
consistently. Computers generate error-free results, provided the input is correct and the 
instructions work.  
•  Storage: Computers store enormous amounts of data and make this data available for 
processing anytime it is needed.  
•  Communications: Most computers today can communicate with other computers, often 
wirelessly. Computers allow users to communicate with one another. 
 
1.2.2 DISADVANTAGES OF USING COMPUTERS  
Some disadvantages of computers relate to the violation of privacy, public safety, the impact 
on the labor force, health risks, and the impact on the environment.  
•  Violation of Privacy: In many instances, where personal and confidential records were not 
properly protected, individuals have found their privacy violated and identities stolen.  
•  Public Safety: Adults, teens, and children around the world are using computers to share 
publicly their photos, videos, journals, music, and other personal information. Some of 
these unsuspecting, innocent computer users have fallen victim to crimes committed by 
dangerous strangers.  
• Impact on Labor Force: Although computers have improved productivity and created an 
entire industry with hundreds of thousands of new jobs, the skills of millions of employees 
have been replaced by computers. Thus, it is crucial that workers keep their education up-
to-date. A separate impact on the labor force is that some companies are outsourcing jobs 
to foreign countries instead of keeping their homeland labor force employed.  
• Health Risks: Prolonged or improper computer use can lead to health injuries or disorders. 
Computer users can protect themselves from health risks through proper workplace design, 
good posture while at the computer, and appropriately spaced work breaks. Another health 
risk, called computer addiction, occurs when someone becomes obsessed with using the 
computer.  
• Impact on Environment: Computer manufacturing processes and computer waste are 
depleting natural resources and polluting the environment. Strategies that can help protect 
the environment include recycling, regulating manufacturing processes, extending the life 
of computers, and immediately donating replaced computers. 
  