5.4 SERVER OPERATING SYSTEMS 
A server operating system is a multiuser operating system that organises and coordinates how 
multi users access and share resources on the a network. Client computers on a network rely on 
server(s) for access to resources. Sever operating systems can handle high numbers of 
transactions, support large-scale messaging and communications, and have enhanced security 
and backup capabilities. 

Examples of Server operating systems include the following: 
 Windows Server 
 OS X Server 
 UNIX 
 Linix 

5.5  MOBILE OPERATING SYSTEM 
The operating system on mobile devices and many consumer electronics is called a mobile 
operating systems and desires firmware. 
 
Examples of Server operating systems include the following: 

 Android 
Android is an open source, Linux-based mobile operating system designed by Google for 
smartphones and tablets. Features unique to recent versions of the Android operating 
system include the following: 
 Google Play app store provides access to apps, songs, books, and movies.  
 Google Drive provides access to email, contacts, calendar, photos, files, and more. Face 
recognition or fingerprint scanner can unlock the device. Share contacts and other 
information by touching two devices together (using NFC technology). Speech output assists 
users with vision impairments.  
 Voice recognition capability enables users to speak instructions. Built-in heart rate 
monitor works with phone apps. 
 iOS 
 Supported devices include the iPhone, iPod Touch, and iPad. Features unique to recent 
versions of the iOS operating system include the following: 
 Siri, a voice recognition app, enables you to speak instructions or questions to which it 
takes actions or responds with speech output.  
 Apple Pay provides a centralized, secure location for credit and debit cards, coupons, 
boarding passes, loyalty cards, and mobile payment accounts.  
 iCloud enables you to sync mail, calendars, contacts, and other items.    
 iTunes Store provides access to music, books, podcasts, ringtones, and movies.  
 Integrates with iPod to play music, video, and other media.  
 Improves connectivity with other devices running the Mac operating system.  
 Mac App Store provides access to additional apps and software updates. 
iOS, developed by Apple, is a mobile operating system specifically made for Apple’s 
mobile devices 
 Windows Phone 
Windows Phone, developed by Microsoft, is a proprietary mobile operating system that 
runs on some smartphones 