 The Microphone
The microphone is another input device. It allows the computer to receive and record sound. The
microphone is necessary for voice recognition software and any type of software that needs to
record sound.

 The Scanner
Scanners allow you to transfer pictures, photographs and text into your computer. This is an
example of going from a hard copy to a soft copy (or digital image). You can then take that digital
image (also called a bitmap) and use it in a paint program like Paint, print it out or send it out as a
fax. With Optical Character Recognition (OCR) software you can convert printed documents such
as newspaper articles to text that you can use in your word processor.

 Trackball is a stationary pointing device with a ball mechanism on the top. To move
the pointer using the trackball you rotate the ball mechanism using you thumb,
finger or the palm of your hand
 Touch Pad is a small, flat, rectangular pointing device that is sensitive to pressure and
motion. To move the pointer you slide your finger across the surface of the pad
 Pointing Stick is a pressure sensitive pointing device shaped like a pencil eraser.
Because of its small size the device was positioned between the keyboard keys. To move
the pointer you push the pointing stick to the direction you want the pointer to move
with your finger
 Joystick and Wheel
used mostly for games. It is a vertical lever mounted on a base. You move the lever in
different directions to control the action of the vehicle or player
 Light Pen is a handheld input device that can detect the presence of light. Some light pens
require a specially designed monitor. Once uploaded, handwriting recognition software on
the computer or mobile device translates the handwritten letters and symbols created on
the screen into typed text or objects that the computer or device can process..
 Touch Screen, interaction with the computer is done through touching areas of the screen
with your fingers, which in turn acts as the input device
 Stylus, electronic pen is used to input data into the computer. The pen can be used to point
at onscreen objects and write or draw objects and many handheld computer supports
handwriting input through a stylus

 The Modem
A modem, sometimes classified as a communication device, is an input as well as an output device.
The word modem is actually a contraction of the words Modulator-Demodulator.
The function of a modem is to connect computers to the Internet. The reason why a modem is
required is that computers use digital signals (1’s and 0’s) whereas telephone lines use analogue
signals. A modem is therefore required to convert digital signals to analogue signals.
A process called modulation for placement on the telephone wire. Before the signals reach the
computer on the receiving end, they need to be converted from analogue to digital again.
A process called demodulation. Every modem is capable of doing both modulation and
demodulation.
Modem speeds started at 2.4 Kbps (Kilobits per second) and progressed as follows: 4.8 Kbps, then
9.6 Kbps, then 19.2 Kbps, then 33.6 Kbps up to 56 Kbps, which is the fastest analogue modem
speed to date. The Kbps unit is usually abridged to K, so you may hear of a ‘56 K modem’ more
often than a ’56 Kbps modem’. In the old days the unit of measurement of modem speed was the
baud rate, so 2.4 Kbps was referred to as 2400 baud.

 The Digital Camera
Digital cameras allow you to take digital photographs. The images are stored in the memory of the
camera and can be later downloaded into the computer. Some cameras can also capture sound
and video. A webcam is a type of DV camera that enables you to capture video and still images,
and usually audio input, for viewing or manipu- lation on a computer or mobile device. During a
video call, all parties see one another as they communicate over the Internet.

 Scanners and Reading Devices
Some devices make the input process more efficient by eliminating the manual entry of data.
Instead of the person entering the data using a keyboard or pointing device, these devices capture
data from the source document, which is the original form of the document.
Types of Scanners and Reading devices:
 Optical Scanner, simply called a scanner, is a light sensitive input device that reads printed
text and graphics and then transmits the results into a form the computer can understand.
 Optical Character recognition is technology that involves reading typewritten, computer
printed or handwritten characters from ordinary documents and translating them into a
form that the computer can understand.
 Optical mark recognition (OMR) devices read hand- drawn marks such as small circles or
rectangles.
 Bar Code Scanner uses laser beams to read barcodes. A bar code is a set of vertical lines
and spaces of different widths. Magnetic Ink Character Recognition (MICR) reader is used to read
text printed with magnetized ink. MICR is exclusively used in the banking industry for check
processing.
 