Fig 3.10 
 
3.2.6 Super Computer 
A super computer is the fastest, most powerful computer and the most expensive. Super 
computers are capable of processing many trillions of instructions in a single second. 
 
3.2.7 Cloud Computing 
Cloud computing refers to an environment of servers that house and provide access to resources 
users access through the internet . Resource include email messages, schedules, music, photos, 
videos, games, websites, programs, web apps, servers, storage, and more. Businesses use cloud 
computing to more efficiently use resources, such as server and programs by shifting usage and 
consumption of these resources from local environment to the internet. 
  
Fig 3.11 
Home and business users choose cloud computing form a variety of reasons: 
 Accessibility: Data and/ or applications are available world wide from any computer or 
device with an Internet connection. 
 Cost savings: The expense of software and high-end hardware shifts away from the user. 
 Space saving: Floor space required for servers, storages devices, and other hardware shifts 
away from the user. 
 Scalability: Provides the flexibility to increase or decrease computing requirements as 
needed. 
 
3.2.8 Mobile Devices 
 
Smart phones is an internet- cable phone that usually also includes a calendar, an appointment 
book, an address book, a calculator, a notepad, games, browser, and numerous other apps. Many 
smartphones have touch screens. Instead of or in addition to an on-screen keyboard, some have 
a built-in mini keyboard on the front of the phone or a keyboard that slides in and out from behind 
the phone. 

Fig 3.12 

A digital camera is a mobile device that allows users to take photos and store the photographed 
images digitally. 

Types of Digital Cameras: 
 Smart digital camera 
 Point-and-shoot camera 
 SLR camera 

Resolution is the number of horizontal and vertical pixels in a display. A portable media player is 
a mobile device on which you can store, organize, and play or view digital media. A wearable 
device or wearable is a small, mobile computing device designed to be worn by a consumer. 
 