 Media Sharing and Bookmarking 
A media sharing is a website that enables members to manage and share media such as photos, 
videos and music. This website is sometimes called photo sharing sites, video sharing site and 
music sharing site respectively. A bookmarking site is a website that enables members to organise, 
tag, and share links to media and other online content. A tag is a short descriptive label that you 
assign to web pages, photos, videos, blog posts, email messages and other digital content so that 
it is easier locate at a later time. A tag is a short descriptive label that you assign to webpages, 
photos, videos, blog posts, email messages, and other digital content so that it is easier locate at a 
later time. 

 News, Weather, Sports, and Other Mass Media 
News, weather, sports and other mass media websites contains newsworthy material, including 
stories and articled relating to current events, life, money, politics, weather and sports. 
 
 Educational 
An educational website offers exciting challenging avenues for formal and informal teaching and 
learning. E.g. The web contains thousands of tutorials from learning how to fly airplanes to learning 
how to cook a meal etc. 
 Business, Governmental, and Organisational 
A business website contains content that increases brand awareness, provides company 
background or other information, and/ or promotes or sells products or services. Most United 
States government agencies have websites providing citizens with information such as census data, 
or assistance, such as filing taxes. 
 
 Blogs 
A blog is (short for weblog) an informal website consisting of time-stamped articles, or posts, in a 
diary or journal format, usually listed in reverse chronological order. The blogsphere refers to the 
worldwide collection of blogs. A blog that contains a video is sometimes called a vblog or video 
blog. A microblog usually allows users to publish short messages between 100 and 200 charecters, 
for others to read. 

 Wikis 
 
A wiki is a collaborative website that allows users to create, add, modify, or delete the website 
content via a browser. Wikis can include articles, documents, photos, or videos. Some wikis are 
public, accessible to everyone while others are private so that content is accessible only to certain 
individuals or groups. 
 
 Health and Science 
Health service organisations store your personal health history, including prescriptions, lab test 
results, doctors visits, allergies, and immunisations. Doctors use the web to assist with researching 
and diagnosis health conditions. Many websites provides up-to date medical, fitness, nutrition, or 
exercise information for public acess. 

 Entertainement 
Many entertainment websites support streaming media. Streaming is the process of transferring 
data in a continuous and even flow, which allows users to access and use a file while it is 
transmitting. 
 
 Financial 
Online banking and online trading enables 
 A wiki is a type of collabora- tive website that allows users to create, add, modify, or delete 
the website content via a browser. Wikis can include articles, documents, photos, or videos.  
 
Types of Websites 
Web publishing is the creation and maintenance of websites 
 
The five major steps in web publishing are as follows: 
 
Fig 2.12 