5.2.3  SHUTTING DOWN COMPUTERS AND MOBILE DEVICES 

When a computer or mobile device is off, press a power button to turn it on. The process of 
starting or restarting a computer is called booting. There are two types of booting, Cold boot and 
Warm boot. Cold boot means turning on the computer that has been powered off completely. 
Warm boot means using the operating systems to restart the computer. An operating system 
includes various shut down options. Sleep mode saves any open documents and running programs 
or apps to memory , turns off all uneeded functions and then places the computer in a low-power 
state. Hibernate mode, by contrast, saves any open documents and running programs or apps to 
an internal harddrive before removing power from the computer or devices.   A boot drive is the 
drive from which your personal computer starts, which typically is an internal hard drive, such as 
a hard disk or SSD. 

5.2.4 PROVIDING USER INTERFACE 
In computer science and human-computer interaction, the user interface (of a computer program) 
refers to the graphical, textual and auditory information the program presents to the user, and the 
control sequences (such as keystrokes with the computer keyboard, movements of the computer 
mouse, and selections with the touch screen) the user employs to control the program. A user 
interface controls how you enter data and instructions and how information is displayed on the 
screen 

5.2.4.1  Graphical User Interface  
  
A Graphical User Interface (GUI) is a type of user interface item that allows people to interact with 
programs in more ways than typing such as computers; hand-held devices such as MP3 Players, 
Portable Media Players or Gaming devices; household appliances and office equipment with 
images rather than text commands. A GUI offers graphical icons, and visual indicators, as opposed 
to text-based interfaces, typed command labels or text navigating  
A symbol that appears on the display screen and that you move to select objects and commands. 
Usually, the pointer appears as a small angled arrow. Text processing applications, however, use 
an I-beam pointer that is shaped like a capital.  
A device, such as a mouse or trackball that enables you to select objects on the Menus Most 
graphical user interfaces let you execute commands by selecting a choice from a menu. 
