1.8.4 Uses Of Technology In Society 
People interact with technology in fields such as education, government, finance, retail, 
entertainement, health care, travel, science, publishing and manufacturing. 
 
Read Chapter 1 of Discovering Computers, Enhanced by vermaat, Sebok, Freund, Campell, 
Frydenberg Page33-37 
 
1.8.5 Technology Users 
Everyday around the world, people uses various technologies at home, at work and at school. 
Depending on the hardware, software and communications requirements, these users generally 
can be classified in one of the five catergories. 
 
Catergories of Technology Users. 
 
Fig 1.22 
Read Chapter 1 of Discovering Computers, Enhanced by vermaat, Sebok, Freund, Campell, 
Frydenberg Page38-39 
 
Home User
Small/Home
Office User
Mobile User
Power User
Enterprise User

 A home user is any person who spends time using technology at home. Parents, 
children, teenagers, grandparents, singles, couples, etc., are all examples of home 
users.  
 A small/home office user includes employees of companies with fewer than 50 
employees, as well as the self-employed who work from home. Small offices include 
local law practices, accounting offices, travel agencies, and florists.  
 A mobile user includes any person who works with computers or mobile devices 
while away from a main office, home, or school. Examples of mobile users are sales 
representatives, real estate agents, insurance agents, meter readers, package 
delivery people, journalists, consultants, and students.  
 A power user is a user who requires the capabilities of a powerful computer. 
Examples of power users include engineers, scientists, architects, desktop 
publishers, and graphic artists.  
 An enterprise has hundreds or thousands of employees or customers who work in 
or do business with offices across a region, the country, or the world. Each employee 
or customer who uses computers, mobile devices, and other technology in the 
enterprise is an enterprise user. Read Ethics & Issues 1-5 to consider whether 
employees should be held accountable for their online social network posts. 