 Digital Cameras 
 
Fig 1.7 
 
A digital camera is a device that allows you to take photos and store the photographed images 
digitally. 

A digital camera or digicam is also known as a camera that encodes digital 
images and videos digitally and stores them for later reproduction.[1] Most cameras sold today are 
digital and digital cameras are incorporated into many devices ranging from PDAs and mobile 
phones (called camera phones) to vehicles. Digital and movie cameras share an optical system, 
typically using a lens with a variable diaphragm to focus light onto an image pickup device. Digital 
cameras  often can connect to or communicate wirelessly with a computer, a printer, or the 
Internet, enabling you to access the photos on the camera without using the cable. 

 Portable Media Players 
 
Fig 1.8 
 
A portable media player, sometimes called personal media player, is a mobile device on which you 
can store, organise and play or view digital media. A portable media player (PMP) is also called 
digital audio player (DAP) and is a portable consumer electronics device capable of storing and 
playing digital media such as audio, images, and video files. The data is typically stored on 
a CD, DVD, flash memory, microdrive, or hard drive. Most portable media players are equipped 
with a 3.5 mm headphone jack, which users can plug headphones into, or connect to 
a boombox or hifi system. Portable media players usually include a set of ear buds, which are small 
speakers that rest inside each ear canal. 
 
 E-book reader or e-book device, is a mobile electronic device that is designed primarily for the 
purpose of reading digital e-books or electronic version of a printed book and periodicals.E-book 
reader is a short for electronic book reader. 
 
 Game Devices 
A game console is a mobile computing devices designed for single- player or multiple player 
video games. Gamers ofen connect the game console to a television so that they can view their 
gameplay on the television’s screen. 
 
Fig 1.10 