4.4.1 Viewing the Progress of Printing  
  
If you have sent a number of documents to be printed, you may wish to review their progress. You 
can do this from the desktop Print Manager. There are two ways to do this:  

 Open the printer’s window (start- printers and faxes) and select the printer that you 
are currently using and open it. A window appears which shows you the progress of 
the various print jobs you have sent to this printer  
 When you start to print, a printer icon opens in the Taskbar at the bottom right of your 
screen (next to the clock in the most cases). The icon remains on the Taskbar as long 
as there are files being printed. When printing is complete, it disappears 

4.4.2 Pausing, Restarting, or Deleting a Print Job  

Fromthe Print Manager screen, you can also pause or purge printing. This can be useful 
if,for example, you have a long print queue and suddenly have something urgent 
to print, or if the printer jams and you need to stop printing. To do this, either click the 
printer menu or right click a specific file. In either case, select what you want to do.  
  
4.4.3 Installing a Printer  
  
If you’re new printer is plugged and play, then if you plug it into the correct port and turn it on, 
windows automatically defects it and installs it. The different types of printer port are outside the 
scope of this book, but the documentation with your printer should make clear which port to use- 
the plug and sockets are different for each kind of port. If you do not have a plug and play printer, 
you can use Add Printer Wizard. Choose start – printer and faxes-window has the option Add a 
printer at the top. If you using the Classic view, you see an Add new printer icon.  
  
In either case, click the option to open the Add Printer Wizard and follow the instructions. You will 
be asked for the manufacturer and model of printer. You may also be asked to insert the 
installation disk that came with your printer. You may also ask if you want to share the printer with 
other networks users, and you will be given the option to print a test page.  