2.4.1 Browsing and Navigating the Web 
A browser is an application that enables users with an Internet connection to access and view 
webpages on a computer or mobile device. Internet-cabled mobile devices such as smart phones 
use a special type of browser, called mobile browser which is designed for their smaller screens 
and limited computing power. 
 
A home page is the first page that a website displays. Similar to a book cover or a table of contents, 
a website’s home page provides informationabout its purpose and content. Current browsers 
typically support tabbed browsing. Tabbed browsing is where the top of the browser shows a tab 
(similar to a file folder tab) for each webpage you display. 

Fig 2.9 
 
2.4.2 Web Apps and Mobile apps 
 
A web app is an application stored on a web server that you access through a browser. Users 
typically interact with web apps directly at a website, sometimes referred to as the host. Web app 
hosts usually provide storage for users’ data and information on their servers known as cloud 
storage. 
 
Fig 2.10 
 
A mobile app, is an application you download from a mobile device’s app store or other location 
on the internet to a smart phone or other mobile device.  

Search operators can help to refine your search: 
 
Fig 2.11 
 
2.4.2 Types of Websites 
 
 Web Search Engine 
A web search engine is software that finds websites, webpages, images, videos, news, maps, and 
other information related to a specific topic. Some search engines, such as Bing, Google, and 
Yahoo!, are helpful in locating information on the web for which you do not know an exact web 
address or are not seeking a specific websitye. A subject directory classifies webpages in an 
organized set of categories, such as sports or shopping, and related subcategories. 
Depending on your search text, search engines may respond with thousands to billions of search 
results, sometimes called hits. 
 
 Online Social Network 
Online social network or social networking site is a website that encourages members in its online 
community to share their interests, ideas, stories, photos, music, and videos with other registered 
users. Some social networking sites also enable users to communicate through text, voice, and 
video chat, and play games together online. 
 
 Informational and research 
An informational website contains factual information. Examples include Libraries, encyclopedias, 
dictioneries, directories, guides and other types of reference.