5.2.8  CONFIGURING DEVICES 
 
A  driver, short for device driver is a small program that tells the operating system how to 
communicate with a specific  device. Each device connected to a computer, such as mouse , 
keyboard , monitor, printer, card   reader/writer, digital camera, webcam, portable media player, 
smart phone or tablet has its own  specialised set of commands and thus requires its own specific 
driver. If you attach a new device, such as portable media player or smartphone  to a computer, 
its driver must  be installed before you can use the device. Today most  devices and operating 
systems support Plug and Play. Plug and Play means operating systems automatically configures 
new devicesas you install them. 

5.2.9  ESABLISHING AN INTERNET CONNECTION 
 
Operating systems typically provide a means to establish Internet connections 
 
5.2.10 MONITORING PERFOMANCE 
 
A performance monitor is a program that assesses and reports information about various 
computer resources and devices. 

5.3 TYPES OF OPERATING SYSTEMS 
Many of the first operating systems were device dependent and proprietary. Device-independent 
programs runs only on a specific type or make of computer or mobile device 
Device-independent operating systems now runs on computers and mobile devices provided by 
a variety of manufacturers  
The advantage users can retain existing applications if the computer is changed 
Proprietary software is privately owned and limited to a specific vendor or computer or device 
model. Backward compatible is when new versions of the operating system recognizes and work 
with applications written for earlier versions 
Upward compatible is when applications can run on new versions of the operating system 
 
Each type of operating system is only available by category 
For example, Apple iOS can only be purchased for mobile devices and not for servers and 
desktops. Desktop is an on-screen work area. 
A desktop operating system is a complete operating system that works on desktops, laptops, and 
some tablets.  

Examples of the more widely used desktop operating systems are : 
 Windows  
 Mac OS 
 UNIX 
 Linux 
 And Chrome OS 
 