1.8.1 Operating Systems 
Operating systems is a set of programs that coordinates all the activities among computer or 
mobile device hardware. It provides a means for users to communicate with the computer or 
mobile device and other software. 

 Examples of Operating Systems 
Laptops, tablets, and desktop computers all run operating systems that you've probably heard of. 
Some examples include versions of Microsoft Windows (like Windows 10, Windows 8, Windows 7, 
Windows Vista, and Windows XP), Apple's macOS (formerly OS X) Chrome OS, and flavors of the 
open source operating system Linux. 
Your smartphone runs an operating system too, probably either Apple's iOS or Google's Android. 
Both are household names but you may not have realized that they are the operating systems 
being utilized on those devices. 
Servers, like those that host the websites you visit or serve the videos you watch, typically run 
specialized operating systems, designed and optimized to run the special software required to 
make them do what they do. Some examples include Windows Server, Linux, and FreeBSD. 
 
Fig 1.18 
To use application software, your computer or mobile device must be running an operating 
systems 
 
1.8.2 Applications 
Application software, usually simply called application (or app for short), consists of programs 
designed to make users more productive and/ or assist them with personal tasks. 

Fig 1.19 
Applications include programs stored on a computer, as well as those on a mobile device or 
delivered to your device over the Internet. Desktop app often is the term used to describe 
applications stored on a computer. Web app, is an application stored on a web server that you 
access through a browser. Mobile app is an application you download from a mobile device’s 
application store or other location on the Internet to a smartphone or other mobile device. 
 
Developing Programs and Apps 
A software developer sometimes called an application developer or computer programmer, is 
someone who develops programs and apps or writes the instructions that directs the computer 
or mobile devices to process data into information. 
  
 