TOPIC ONE | INTRODUCTION TO  COMPUTERS AND TODAY’S TECHNOLOGY  

1.1 COMPUTER TODAY 
 
The term "computer" was originally given to humans (human computers) who performed 
numerical calculations using mechanical calculators, such as the abacus and slide rule. ...  
 
Today’s computers are an electronic device, operating under the control of instructions stored 
in its own memory, that can accept data(input), processes the data according to specified rules, 
produce  information (output), and store the results or information for future use. Computers 
process data to create information. Data is a collection of raw unprocessed facts, figures, and 
symbols. Information is data that is organized, meaningful, and useful. To process data into 
information, a computer uses hardware and software.  
  
After reading this Section of the guide, the learner should be able to: 

Fig 1.1 
 
In today’s world computers have become commonplace and it is hard to think of a time when 
computers were not so widespread and where computers were so expensive that they were only 
used by very large companies.  
Nowadays, people are likely to own at least one computing device and probably more whether it 
be a Desktop Personal Computer (PC), a Laptop, a Netbook, a Tablet or a SmartPhone. 
Computers contain many parts or components that are called hardware. Hardware is the electric, 
electronic, and mechanical equipment that makes up a computer. Software is the series of 
instructions that tells the hardware how to perform tasks. 
These components they process data using instructions, which are the steps that tell the computer 
how to perform a particular task. 
Computers have touched every part of our lives: the way we work, the way we learn, the way we 
live, even the way we play. It almost is impossible to go through a single day without encountering 
a computer, a device dependent on a computer, information produced by a computer, or a word 
that was introduced or whose meaning has changed with the advent of computers. Because of the 
significance of computers in today’s world, it is important to be computer literate 
 