Fig 1.2 
A Laptop is also called notebook computer. It is a thin, lightweight mobile computer with a screen 
in its lid and a keyboard in its base. A laptop is a portable computer that has most, or all, of the 
same abilities as a desktop, but is small enough for easy mobility. It is designed to fit on your lap 
and for easy transport. Most lap tops operate on batteries or a power supply or both. 

Fig 1.3 
A tablet computer, commonly shortened to tablet, The tablets are usually smaller than a laptop 
computer but larger than a smartphone or phone. It is a thin, flat, lighter weight mobile computer 
that has a touch screen display, which in 2016 is usually color, processing circuitry, and a 
rechargeable battery in a single device. Tablets often come equipped with sensors, 
including digital cameras, a microphone, and an accelerometer. The touchscreen display uses the 
recognition of finger or stylus gestures to replace he mouse, track pad and keyboard used 
in laptops.
  
Like laptops, tablets run on batteries or a power supply or both, however batteries in a tablet 
typically last longer than those in laptops. 
 
 Desktop 
 
Fig1.4 

A desktop computer is a personal computer designed to be in a stationary location, where all of its 
components fit on or under a desk or table. It is designed for regular use at a single location on or 
near a desk or table due to its size and power requirements. On many desktops the screen is 
housed in a device that is separate from the tower, which is a case that contains the processing 
circuit. Some desktop usually called all-in-one desktops, do not contain a tower and instead use 
the same case to house the screen and the processing circuit. With today’s technology, some 
screens for desktops support touch. 

 Servers 
 
Fig 1.5 
A server is a computer dedicated to providing one or more services to other computers or devices 
on a network.  Server is a computer program or a device that provides functionality for other 
programs or devices, called "clients". Servers can provide various functionalities, often called 
"services", such as sharing data, storing content, controlling access to hardware, software or 
resources among multiple clients, or performing computation for a client. A single server can serve 
multiple clients, and a single client can use multiple servers. A client process may run on the same 
device or may connect over a network to a server on a different device. A network is a collection 
of computers and devices connected together, often wirelessly. 