3.3.2 Processors 
Processor is also called Central Processing Unit. The Central processing Unit known as CPU caries 
out and interpretes  basic instruction that operates a computer. The CPU, significantly impacts on 
overall computing power and manages most of the computer operations. Most of the devices 
connected to the computer communicate with the CPU in order to carry out a task.  Some 
computer and chip manufacturers use the term microprocessor to refer to a personal computer 
processor chip. A multi-core processor is a single chip with two or more separate processor cores. 
Multu-core processors are used in all sizes of computers. 

3.3.2.1 Control Units 
 
Fig 3.16 
The control unit is the component of the processor that directs and coordinates most of the 
operations in the computer. The control unit has a role much like a traffic officer; it interpretes 
each instruction issued by a program or application and then initiates the appropriate action to 
carry out the instruction. The arithmetic logic unit (ALU) performs arithmetic, comparison, and 
other operations.  Arithmetic operations includes basic calculations such as addition, subtraction, 
multiplication, and division. Comparison operation involve comparing one data item with another 
to determine whether the first item is greater than, equals to or less than the other item.

3.3.2.2 Machine Cycle 
For every instruction, a processor repeats a set of four basic operations, which comprise a machine 
cycle. 
 
Fig 3.17 
 Fetching is the process of obtaining a program or application instruction or data item from 
memory 
 Decoding refers to the process of translating the instruction into signals the computer can 
execute 
 Executing is the process of carrying out the commands 
 Storing, in this context, means writing the results to memory(not on storage medium) 

The processor contains small, high speed storage locations, called registers, that temporarly hold 
data and instructions. Processors have many different types of registres, each with a specific 
storage function.  The processor relies on a small quartz crystal circuit called System Clock to 
control the timing of all computer operations. Just as your heart beats at a regular electronic 
pulses, or ticks, that set the operating pace of components of the system unit. Each tick equates 
to a clock cycle. Processors today typically are superscalar, which means they can execute more 
than one instruction per clock cycle. The pace of the system clock is called clock speed. 
A processor chip generates heat that could cause the chip to malfunction or fail. Some computer 
cases locate additional fans near certain components, such as a processor, to provide additional 
cooling. Required additional cooling: 

 Heat sink is a small ceramic or metal component with fins on its surface that 
absorbs and disperses heat produced by electrical components, such as processor.  
 Liquid cooling technology uses continuous flow of fluid(s), such as water and glycol, 
in a process that transfers the heated fluid away from the processor to a radiator-
type grill, which cools the liquid, and then returns the cooled fluid to the processor. 
 Cooling pads rests below a laptop and protects the computer from overheating and 
also the user’s lap from excessive heat.  
 
 
 