1.7 DIGITAL SECURITY AND SAFETY 
 
People rely on computers to create, store, and manage their information. Ton safeguard this 
information, it is important that users protect their computers and mobile devices. Web safety, 
or online safety or Internet Safety, is the knowledge of maximizing the user's personal safety 
Viruses and Other MalwarePrivacyHealth ConcernsEnvironmental Issues 
and security risks to private information and property associated with using the internet, and 
the self-protection from computer crime in general. 
 
1.7.1 Viruses And Other Malware 
Malware is short for malicious software, is software that acts without a user’s knowledge and 
deliberately alters the computer’s and mobile device’s operations. Examples of malware include 
viruses, worms, Trojan horses, rootkits, spyware, adware, and zombies. Each of these types of 
malware attacks your computer or mobile device differently. 
A computer virus is a malicious piece of executable code that propagates typically by attaching 
itself to a host document that will generally be an executable file. Virus is a program written to 
enter to your computer and damage/alter your files/data. A virus might corrupt or delete data on 
your computer. Viruses can also replicate themselves. 

 Virus is of different types which are as follows. 
 File viruses 
 Macro viruses 
 Master boot record viruses 
 Boot sector viruses 
 Multipartite viruses 
 Polymorphic viruses 
 Stealth viruses 
 
Worms are malicious programs that make copies of themselves again and again on the local drive, 
network shares, etc. The only purpose of the worm is to reproduce itself again and again. It doesn’t 
harm any data/file on the computer. Unlike a virus, it does not need to attach itself to an existing 
program. Worms spread by exploiting vulnerabilities in operating systems. 
 
1.7.2 Privacy 
Information privacy, or data privacy (or data protection), is the relationship between collection 
and dissemination of data, technology, the public expectation of privacy, and the legal and 
political issues surrounding them. 
In many instances, where personal and confidential records were not protected properly, 
individuals have found their privacy violated and identies stolen. 
 