Fig 2.15 
 
An email list is a group of email addresses used for mass distribution of a message.  When a 
message is sent to an email list, each person on the list receives a copy of the message in his or her 
mailbox.  You subscribe to an email list by adding your email address to the mailing list which is 
stored on a list server. An email address is a combination of a user name and a domain name that 
identifies a user so that he or she can receive Internet email. 

Instant messaging services is a real-time Internet or communications services notify you when one 
or more of your established contacts are online and then allows you to exchange messages or files 
or join a private chat room with them. An online discussion is an online area in which users have 
written discussions about a particular subject. VoIP (Voice over IP) enables users to speak to other 
users via their Internet connection. Chat is a real typed conversation that takes place on a 
computer or mobile device with many other online users. Chat room is website or application that 
permits users to chat with others who are online at the same time. 
Discussion forums or message board is an online area in which users have written discussions 
about a particular subject. A thread, or threaded discussion, consists of the original article and all 
subsequent related replies. FTP (File Transfer Protocol) is an Internet standard that permits file 
uploading and downloading to and from other computers on the Internet. Uploading is the process 
of transferring files from your computer or mobile device to a server on the Internet. An FTP server 
is a computer that allows users to upload and/or download files using FTP.The domain name 
system (DNS) is the method that the Internet uses to store domain names and their corresponding 
IP addresses. When you enter a domain name (i.e., google.com) in a browser, a DNS server 
translates the domain name to its associated IP address so that the request can be routed to the 
correct computer. 