2.5 DIGITAL MEDIA ON THE WEB 
 
Most webpages include more than just formatted text and links. They use  multimedia, which refers 
to any  application that combines text with media. Media includes graphics, animation, audio, 
video and virtual reality. A graphic is a visual representation of nontext information. Graphic 
formats include BMP, GIF, JPEG, PNG, and TIFF. An infographic is a visual representation of data 
and information, designed to communicate quickly, simplify complex concepts, or present patterns 
or trends A thumbnail is a small version of a larger object that you usually can tap or click to display 
a larger image or object. Animation is the appearance of motion created by displaying a series of 
still images in sequence. For example, text that animates by scrolling  across the screen can serve 
as aticker to display stock updates, news, sports, weather and other information. Audio includes 
music, speech, or any other sound. You listen to audio on your computer using a media player. 

Fig 2.13 

2.6 OTHER INTERNET SERVICES 
 
Email is a short for electronic mail. It is the transmission of messages and files via a computer 
network. An email program allows you to create, send, receive, forward, store, print, and delete 
email messages. 
 
Fig 2.14 
 
How an email message can travel from a Sender to a Receiver 
Computers and devices connected to the Internet work together to transfer data around the world 
using servers and clients and various wired and wireless transmission media. Wired transmission 
media includes phone line, coaxial cable, and fiber-optic cable. Wireless transmission media 
includes radio waves and satellite signals. The inner structure of the Internet works much like a 
transportation system. Just as interstate highways connect major cities and carry the bulk of the 
automotive traffic across the country, several main transmission media carry the heaviest amount 
of traffic, or communications activity, on the Internet. These major carriers of network traffic are 
known collectively as the Internet backbone. 