4.3  DISPLAY DEVICES   
  
Display device is an output device that visually conveys text, graphics and video information. 
Information shown on a display device is called soft copy, because the information exists 
electronically and is displayed for a temporary period only. Display devices include:   
 
 CRT Monitors: Cathode Ray Tube monitors (CRT) are popular for desktop computers.  
 Flat – Panel Display Devices: Flat-panel Liquid Crystal Display (LCD) models are used mostly 
for portable computers but are also starting to be used with desktop computers. They are 
expensive but take up less desk space, give out no radiation and do not flicker. Laptops, 
Notebooks, Handheld Computers, eBooks, Mobile Phones comes under LCD models  
 High Definition Television  
  
The monitor receives signals from a video display adapter card inside the computer and it gives the 
user a graphical or textual display. A complete display system consists of a video display adapter 
and a monitor. A video display adapter (also called video card) is an expansion card that provides 
a data pathway from the motherboard to the monitor.  
 A computer monitor looks somewhat like a TV screen and displays images composed of dots called 
pixels or picture elements. The numbers of dots that make up an image, determine the sharpness 
and clarity or resolution of the image. For example, a resolution of 800 pixels x 600 pixels will give 
a sharper and clearer picture than a resolution of 640 pixels x 480 pixels.  
Whereas Cathode Ray Tube monitors (CRT) are popular for desktop  computers, flat-panel Liquid 
Crystal Display (LCD) models are used mostly for portable computers but are also starting to be 
used with desktop computers.  

They are expensive but take up less desk space, give out no radiation and do not flicker. Monitors 
can be monochrome or colour, though colour is almost universal these days except in palm-size 
computers. 
  
When choosing a monitor, you want a high-resolution, Non-Interlaced monitor (NI). The so-called 
NI monitor does not flicker when it refreshes or redraws the image on the screen. The most 
common monitor size is 14” (measured diagonally). However, if you can afford it, a 15” or better 
still a 17”, is recommended. A bar code reader, also called a bar code scanner, is an optical reader 
that uses laser beams to read bar codes. A QR code (quick response code) is known as a 2-D bar 
code because it stores information in both a vertical and horizontal direction. RFID (radio 
frequency identification) is a technology that uses radio signals to communicate with a tag placed 
in or attached to an object, an animal, or a person. RFID tags, which contain a memory chip and an 
antenna, are available in many shapes and sizes. An RFID reader reads information on the tag via 
radio waves. A magstripe reader, short for magnetic stripe card reader, reads the magnetic stripe 
on the back of credit cards, entertainment cards, bank cards, identification cards, and other similar 
cards. MICR (magnetic-ink character recognition) devices read text printed with magnetized ink. 
An MICR reader converts MICR characters into a form the computer can process.  