7.10. User Interface 
Windows is designed to offer the same default screen on all devices running the operating system, 
from desktop computers and laptops to cell phones and tablets. When used on a laptop or desktop, 
users can switch from the tile populated Start screen to the more familiar Desktop screen featured on 
previous versions of Windows. As with many previous versions of Windows, users can choose from 
the familiar menu-driven interface or a command-line interface. 
 
Menu-Driven Interface 
 
The menu-driven interface can be accessed from the desktop by clicking on the Start button, or 
by pressing the Windows-logo button on the keyboard. By combining powerful commands and 
search capabilities available from the Start screen, with the traditional breadth of programs 
available from the Desktop screen, users have access to an array of resources. 
The Windows Task Manager can be opened by pressing and holding the Ctrl, Alt, and Delete 
keys together, or by moving to the Start screen and typing task. Here, users have the chance to 
view running applications and processes, as shown in Figures 7.7 and 7.8. To set the priorities 
of apps or processes, open the Details tab and right-click on the process to be changed. From 
the other tabs, users can also view information about performance, networking, and other 
system services. 
From the bottom of the Task Manager screen, one can see details about the use of the 


The system’s hardware and software by using the Resource Monitor, shown in Figure 7.9 The 
Resource Monitor can also be opened by searching from the Start screen for the word resource. 
Here the details of all system resources are displayed in tables and graphs; by clicking on listed 
items, additional operations can be performed. One helpful Windows feature is its 
accommodation for users working in non-English languages. Windows has built-in input 
methods and fonts for many languages, including double-byte languages, such as Japanese. 
During installation, the system administrator can select one or several languages for the system, 
even adding different language support for specific individuals. For example, one user can work 
in Chinese while another can work in Hindi. Even better, the system’s own resources also 
become multilingual, which means that the operating system changes its dialog boxes, prompts, 
and menus to support the chosen language in many cases. 
 
Figure 7.7 
 
 
Figure 7.8 


Figure 7.9 
 