iv. Worms 
 
A worm is a memory-resident program that copies itself from one system to the next without 
requiring the aid of an infected program file. The immediate result of a worm is slower processing 
time of legitimate work because the worm siphons off processing time and memory space. Worms 
are especially destructive on networks, where they hoard critical system resources, such as main 
memory and processor time. 

v. Adware and Spyware 
 
No standard industry-wide definitions exist for adware and spyware, although the concepts 
are broadly recognized as intrusive software covertly loaded on someone’s computing device with 
malicious intent. Adware is software that gains access to a computer after the user visits a 
corrupted website, opens an infected email, loads infected shareware, or performs a similar 
innocent action. Adware examines the user’s browser history, cookies, and other installed apps 
with the intent of facilitating the delivery of user-personalized advertising. And all of this is 
done without the user’s permission or knowledge.

vi. Trojans 
 
A Trojan (originally called a Trojan Horse after the ancient Greek story) is a destructive program 
that’s disguised as a legitimate or harmless program that carries within itself the means to allow 
the program’s creator to secretly access the user’s system. Intruders have been known to capture 
user passwords by using a Trojan to replace the standard login program on the computer with an 
identical fake login that captures keystrokes. 
➢ The user sees a login prompt and types in the user ID. 
➢ The user sees a password prompt and types in the password. 
➢ The rogue program records both the user ID and password and sends a typical login failure 
message to the user. 
➢ Then the Trojan program stops running and returns control to the legitimate program. 
➢ Now, the user sees the legitimate login prompt and retypes the user ID. 
➢ The user sees the legitimate password prompt and retypes the password. 
➢ Finally, the user gains access to the system, unaware that the rogue program has used the 
first attempt to record the user ID and password. 