Fortunately, most programs are structured, and this leads to a locality of reference during the 
program’s execution, meaning that during any phase of its execution the program references 
only a small fraction of its pages. If a job is executing a loop, then the instructions within the loop 
are referenced extensively while those outside the loop may not be used at all until the loop is 
completed, that’s the location of reference. The same concept applies to sequential instructions, 
subroutine calls (within the subroutine), stack implementations, access to variables acting as 
counters or sums, or multidimensional variables, such as arrays and tables, where only a few of 
the pages are needed to handle the references. 

It would be convenient if all the pages in a job’s working set were loaded into memory at one 
time to minimize the number of page faults and to speed up processing, but that is easier said 
than done. To do so, the system needs definitive answers to some difficult questions: How many 
pages comprise the working set? What is the maximum number of pages the operating system 
will allow for a working set? The second question is particularly important in networked or time- 
sharing systems, which regularly swap jobs, or pages of jobs, into memory and back to secondary 
storage to accommodate the needs of many users. The problem is this, every time a job is 
reloaded back into memory (or has pages swapped), it must generate several page faults until its 
working set is back in memory and processing can continue. 
 
One solution adopted by many paging systems is to begin by identifying each job’s working set 
and then loading it into memory in its entirety before allowing execution to begin. In a time- 
sharing or network system, this means the operating system must keep track of the size and 
identity of every working set, making sure that the jobs destined for processing at any one time 
will not exceed the available memory. Some operating systems use a variable working set size, 
and either increase it when necessary (i.e., the job requires more processing) or decrease it when 
necessary. This may mean that the number of jobs in memory will need to be reduced if, by doing 
so, the system can ensure the completion of each job and the subsequent release of its memory 
space.