6.4. NOS Development 

A NOS typically runs on a computer called a server, and the NOS performs services for network 
computers, called clients. Although computers can assume the role of clients most or all the time, any 
given computer can assume the role of server (or client), depending on the requirements of the 
network. Client and server are not hardware- specific terms but are, instead, role-specific terms. 
Many networks operating systems are true operating systems that include the four management 
functions: memory management, process scheduling, file management, and device management 
(including disk and I/O operations). In addition, they have a network management function with 
a responsibility for network communications, protocols, and so on. In NOS, the network management 
functions come into play only when the system needs to use the network. At all other times, 
the Network Manager is dormant, and the operating system operates as if it is a stand-alone 
system. 

Although NOS can run applications as well as other operating systems, its focus is on sharing resources 
instead of running programs. For example, a single-user operating system, such as early versions 
of Windows, focuses on the user’s ability to run applications. On the other hand, network operating 
systems focus on the user’s ability to share resources available on a server, including applications and 
data, as well as expensive shared resources. 
In the following pages we describe some of the features commonly found in a network operating 
system, without focusing on anyone. The best NOS choice depends on many factors, including the 
applications to be run on the server, the technical support required, the user’s level of training, and 
the compatibility of the hardware with other networking systems. 

Important NOS Features 
 
Most network operating systems provide standard local area network technologies and client desktop 
operating systems. Most networks are heterogeneous, that is, they support computers running a 
wide variety of operating systems. A single network might include devices running Windows, the 
Macintosh operating system (UNIX), and Linux. For NOS to serve as the networking glue, it must 
provide strong support for every operating system in the larger information network, sustaining as 
many current standards as necessary. Therefore, it must have robust architecture 
that adapts easily to new technologies. 

At a minimum, NOS should preserve the user’s expectations for a desktop system. That means 
that the network’s resources should appear as simple extensions of that user’s existing system. 
For example, on a Windows computer, a network drive should appear as just another hard disk 
but with a different volume name and a different drive letter. On a Macintosh computer, the network 
drive should appear as an icon for a volume on the desktop. And on a Linux or UNIX system, the drive 
should appear as a mountable file system. 

NOS is designed to operate a wide range of third-party software applications and hardware devices, 
including hard disk drives, optical disc drives, USB devices, and network interface cards. A NOS 
also supports software for multiuser network applications, such as electronic messaging, as well 
as networking expansions such as new protocol stacks. 
Finally, the NOS must blend efficiency with security. Its constant goal is to provide network clients 
with quick and easy access to the network’s data and resources without compromising network 
security. 
 