Process Management 

In a network, the Processor Manager provides policies and mechanisms to create, delete, abort, 
name, rename, find, block, run, and synchronize processes, it also provides real-time priority 
execution if required. The Processor Manager also manages the states of execution: READY, 
RUNNING, and WAIT. To do this, each CPU in the network is required to have its own run-time kernel 
that manages the lowest-level hardware operation on the physical device, as shown in Figure 6.11. 
 
Figure 6.11 
 
Figure 6.11 shows the kernel that controls each piece of the host’s hardware, including the CPU. 
Each kernel is operated by the DO/S, which, in turn, is directed by the application software running 
on the host computer. In this way, the most cumber- some functions are hidden from 
the user. 
 
The kernel is the entity that controls and operates the CPU and manages the queues used for states 
of execution, although upper-level system policies direct how process control blocks (PCBs) are 
stored in the queues and how they are selected to be run. Therefore, each kernel assumes the role 
of helping the system reach its operational goals. 
 
The kernel’s states are dependent on the global system’s process scheduler and dis- patcher, which 
organize the queues within the local CPU and choose the running policy, 4 which is used to 
execute the processes on those queues. Typically, the system’s scheduling function has three parts: 
a decision mode, a priority function, and an arbitration rule. 
➢ The decision mode determines which policies are used when scheduling a resource. Options 
could include pre-emptive, non-pre-emptive, round robin, and so on. 
➢ The priority function gives the scheduling algorithm the policy that’s used to assign an 
order to processes in the execution cycle. This priority is often determined using a calculation 
that’s based on system characteristics, such as occurrence of events, task recurrence, 
system loading levels, or program run-time characteristics, such as most time remaining, least 
time remaining, and so on. 
➢ The arbitration rule is a policy that is used to resolve conflicts between jobs of equal priority. 
That is, it typically dictates the order in which jobs of the same priority are to be executed. Two 
examples of arbitration rules are last-in- first-out (LIFO), and first-in- first-out (FIFO). 
Most advances in job scheduling rely on one of three theories: queuing theory, statistical 
decision theory, or estimation theory. (These queuing and statistical decision theories are the same 
as those discussed in statistics courses.) An example of estimation theory is a scheduler based on 
process priorities and durations. It maximizes the system’s throughput by using durations to 
compute and schedule the optimal way to interleave process chunks. Distributed scheduling is 
better achieved when migration of the scheduling function and policies considers all aspects of 
the system, including I/O, devices, processes, and communications. 