I/O Devices in the Cloud 
When a user sends a command from a laptop to access a high-speed hard drive that is many miles 
away, the laptop’s operating system still performs many of the steps outlined in this chapter and 
expects an appropriate response from the operating system for the hard drive. Therefore, the 
concepts explored in this chapter continue to apply even as the cloud allows access to many more 
devices. 

Sequential Access Media Storage 
The first secondary storage medium used for electronic digital computers was paper in the form 
of printouts, punch cards, and paper tape. Magnetic tape followed for routine secondary 
storage in early computer systems. 
 
A thorough introduction to the details of storage management is to look at the simplest case: 
a sequential access storage device, which can easily be visualized as an archival magnetic tape that 
writes and reads records in sequence from the beginning of a reel of tape to the end. 
 
The length of sequential record is usually determined by the application program, and each record 
can be identified by its position on the tape. To appreciate just how long this takes, consider a 
hypothetical computer system that uses a reel of tape that is 2400 feet long, see figure 4.3. Data 
is recorded on eight of the nine parallel tracks that run the length of the tape. The ninth track, 
shown at the top of the figure, holds a parity bit that is used for routine error checking. 
 
The number of characters that can be recorded per inch is determined by the density of the tape, 
such as 1,600 bytes per inch (bpi). For example, if you had records of 160 characters each, and 
were storing them on a tape with a density of 1,600 bpi, then theoretically you could store 10 
records on one inch of tape. However, in actual practice, it would depend on how you decided to 
store the records: individually or grouped into blocks. If the records were stored in blocks, then 
each block would be preceded by a space and followed by a space, with the individual records 
stored sequentially within the block. 
 
Figure 4.3 
 
Figure 4.3 illustrates a nine-track magnetic tape with three characters recorded using odd 
parity. A half-inch wide reel of tape, typically used to back up a mainframe computer, can 
store thousands of characters, or bytes, per inch. 
 
To appreciate the difference between storing records individually or in blocks, let us look at 
the mechanics of reading data from a magnetic tape. The tape remains stopped until there is 
a request to access one or more records. Then the reel of tape starts to rotate, and the tape 
passes under the read/write head. Magnetic tape moves under the read/write head only when 
there is a need to access a record, at all other times it is standing still. 
 
Records are written in the same way, assuming that there is room on the reel of tape for the data 
to be written, otherwise, a fresh reel of tape would need to be accessed. So, the tape moves in 
jerks as it stops, reads, and moves on at high speed, or stops, writes, and starts again, and so on. 
 
The tape needs time and space to stop, so a gap is inserted between each record. This inter- record 
gap (IRG) is about 1@2 inch long regardless of the sizes of the records it separates. Therefore, if 
10 records are stored individually, there will be nine 1@2-inch IRGs between each record. In Figure 
4.4, we assume each record is only 1@10 inch, so 5.5 inches of tape are required to store 1 inch of 
data, not a very efficient way to use the storage medium. 
 
Figure 4.4 
 
Figure 4.4 illustrate an IRGs on magnetic tape. Each record requires only 1/10 inch of tape. 
When 10 records are stored individually on magnetic tape, they are separated by IRGs, which add 
up to 4.5 inches of tape. This totals 5.5 inches of tape. 
An alternative is to group the records into blocks before recording them on tape. This is called 
blocking, and it is performed when the file is created. Later, when you retrieve them, you must 
be sure to unblock them accurately. 