4.3. Communication Among Devices 

The Device Manager relies on several auxiliary features to keep running efficiently under the 
demanding conditions of a busy computer system, and there are three requirements it must fulfil: 

➢ It needs to know which components are busy and which are free. 
➢ It must be able to accommodate the requests that come in during heavy I/O traffic. 
➢ It must accommodate the disparity of speeds between the CPU and the I/O devices. 
 
The first is solved by structuring the interaction between units. The last two problems are handled 
by queuing requests and buffering records. 
 
As we mentioned previously, each unit in the I/O subsystem can finish its operation independently 
from the others. For example, after a device has begun writing a record, and before it has 
completed the task, the connection between the device and its control unit can be cut off so 
that the control unit can initiate another I/O task with another device. Meanwhile, at the other 
end of the system, the CPU is free to process data while I/O is being performed, which allows for 
concurrent processing and I/O. 
 
The success of the operation depends on the system’s ability to know when a device has completed 
an operation. This is done with a hardware flag that must be tested by the CPU. Made up of 
three bits, the flag resides in the Channel Status Word (CSW), which is in a predefined location in 
main memory that contains information indicating the status of the channel. Each bit represents 
one of the components of the I/O subsystem, one each for the channel, control unit, and device. 
Each bit is changed from 0 to 1 to indicate that the unit has changed from free to busy. Each 
component has access to the flag, which can be tested before proceeding with the next I/O 
operation to ensure that the entire path is free. There are two common ways to perform this 
test, polling and using interruptions. 
 
For example, the CPU periodically tests the channel status bit (in the CSW). If the channel is 
still busy, the CPU performs some other processing tasks until the test shows that the channel 
is free; then the channel performs the I/O operation. The major disadvantage with this scheme 
is determining how often the flag should be polled. If polling is done too frequently, the CPU 
wastes time testing the flag just to find out that the channel is still busy. On the other hand, if 
polling is done too seldom, the channel could sit idle for long periods of time. 
 
The use of interrupts is a more efficient way to test the flag. Instead of the CPU testing the 
flag, a hardware mechanism does the test as part of every machine instruction executed by 
the CPU. If the channel is busy, the flag is set so that execution of the current sequence of 
instructions is automatically interrupted, and control is transferred to the interrupted handler. The 
interrupt handler is part of the operating system and resides in a predefined location in memory. 
 
The interrupt handler’s job is to determine the best course of action based on the current situation. 
Because it is not unusual for more than one unit to have caused the I/O interruption, the interrupt 
handler must find out which unit sent the signal, analyze its status, restart it when appropriate 
with the next operation, and, finally, return control to the interrupted process. 
 
Some sophisticated systems are equipped with hardware that can distinguish between several 
types of interruption. These interrupts are ordered by priority, and each one can transfer control 
to a corresponding location in memory. The memory locations are ranked in order, according to 
the same priorities as the interruptions. Therefore, if the CPU is executing the interrupt-handler 
routine associated with a given priority, the hardware automatically intercepts all interruptions at 
the same, or at lower priorities. This multiple-priority interrupt system helps improve resource 
utilization because each interrupt is handled according to its relative importance. 