Chapter Four: Device Management 
  
The Device Manager must manage every peripheral device of the system despite the multitude 
of input/output (I/O) devices that constantly appear (and disappear) in the marketplace, and the 
swift rate of change in device technology. To do so, it must maintain a delicate balance of supply 
and demand, balancing the system’s finite supply of devices with users’ almost infinite demand 
for them. 
 
4.1. Device management involves 
Looking at four basic functions of device manager: 
 
➢ Monitoring the status of each device, such as storage hardware, monitors, USB tools, and 
other peripheral devices. 
➢ Enforcing preset policies to determine which process will get a device, and for how long. 
➢ Allocating each device appropriately. 
➢ Deallocating each device at two levels: at the process (or task) level when an I/O command 
has been executed and has temporarily released its device, and at the job level when the job 
is finished, and the device is permanently released. 

Types of Devices: 
 
The system’s peripheral devices, listed in Figure 4.1, generally fall into one of three categories: 
dedicated, shared, and virtual. The differences are a function of the characteristics of the devices, 
as well as how they are managed by the Device Manager. 
 
Figure 4.1 
 
Figure 4.1 shows windows 10 operating system that allows users to manage connected 
devices through the settings menu. 
 
Dedicated devices are assigned to only one job at a time, they serve that job for the entire time it 
is active or until it releases them. Some devices, such as monitors, the mouse, and printers, often 
demand this kind of allocation scheme, because it would be awkward to let several users 
share them. A shared monitor, for example, might display half of one user’s work and half of 
someone else’s game. The disadvantage of having dedicated devices is that they must be 
allocated to a single user for the duration of a job’s execution. This can be quite inefficient, such 
as with a 3D printer that is exclusively allocated to one person who does not use the device 
100 percent of the time. 
 
Shared devices can be allocated to several processes at the same time. For instance, a disk, or any 
other direct access storage device (DASD), can be shared by several processes by interleaving their 
requests, but this interleaving must be carefully controlled by the Device Manager. All conflicts, 
such as when Process A and Process B need to read from the same disk, must be resolved based 
on pre-determined policies that decide which request is handled first.

Virtual devices are a combination of the first two: They are dedicated devices that have been 
transformed into shared devices. For example, printers, which are dedicated devices, can be 
converted into shared devices by using a spooling program that re-routes all printers’ requests via 
the storage space on a disk. Only when all a job’s output is complete, and the printer is ready to 
print out the entire document, is the output sent to the printer for printing. This procedure must 
be managed carefully to prevent deadlocks. Because disks are sharable devices, this technique can 
convert one printer into several virtual printers, thus improving both its performance and its use. 
Spooling is a technique that is often used to speed up slow dedicated I/O devices. 
 
The universal serial bus (USB) controller acts as an interface between the operating system, device 
drivers, and applications and the devices that are attached via the USB host. One USB host 
controller (assisted by USB hubs) can accommodate as many as 127 different devices, including 
flash memory, phones, cameras, scanners, musical key- boards, additional hubs, and so on. Each 
device is uniquely identified by the USB host controller with an identification number, which 
allows many devices to exchange data with the computer using the same USB host connection. 
The USB controller does this by assigning bandwidth to each device depending on its priority: 

➢ Highest priority is assigned to real-time exchanges where no interruption in the data 
flow is allowed, such as video or sound data. 
➢ Medium priority is assigned to devices that can allow occasional interrupts without 
jeopardizing the use of the device, such as a keyboard or joystick. 
➢ Lowest priority is assigned to bulk transfers or exchanges that can accommodate slower 
data flow, such as a file update. 
 