Chapter Five: File Management 
  
5.1. File Management 
The File Manager controls every file in the system. In this section we will look at how files are organized 
logically, how they are stored physically, how they are accessed, and who is allowed to access them. 
We will also study the interaction between the File Manager and the Device Manager. 
 
There are several variables that directly affect the efficiency of the File Manager, notably those that are 
detailed in this chapter including: 

• how the system’s files are organized (sequential, direct, or indexed sequential), 
• how they are stored (contiguously, not contiguously, or indexed), 
• how each file’s records are structured (fixed-length or variable-length), 
• how user access to all files is protected (controlled or not controlled)

The File Manager is the software responsible for creating, deleting, modifying, and controlling access 
to files, as well as for managing the resources used by the files. The File Manager provides support for 
libraries of programs and data, doing so in close collaboration with the Device Manager. 
The File Manager has a complex job. It oversees the system’s physical components, its information 
resources, and the policies used to store and distribute the files. To carry out its responsibilities, it must 
perform these four tasks: 

1. Keep track of where each file is stored. 
2. Use a policy that will determine where and how the files will be stored, making sure to efficiently 
use the available storage space and provide easy access to the files. 
3. Allocate each file when a user has been cleared for access to it and then track its use. 
4. Deallocate the file when the file is to be returned to storage and communicate its availability to 
others that may be waiting for it. 
In a computer system, the File Manager keeps track of its files with directories that contain the 
filename, its physical location in secondary storage, and important information about it. 
 
The File Manager’s policy determines where each file is stored and how the system and its users will be 
able to access them simply, via commands that are independent from device details. In addition, the 
policy must determine who will have access to what material, and this involves two factors: flexibility 
of access to the information and its subsequent protection. The File Manager does this by allowing 
access to shared files, providing distributed access, and allowing users to browse through public 
directories. Meanwhile, the operating system must protect its files against system malfunctions and 
provide security checks via account numbers and passwords to preserve the integrity of the data and 
safeguard against tampering. These protection techniques are explained later in this chapter. The 
computer system allocates a file by activating the appropriate secondary storage device and loading 
the file into memory while updating its records of who is using what file. 
 
Finally, the File Manager deallocates a file by updating the file tables and rewriting the file (if revised) 
to the secondary storage device. Any processes waiting to access the file are then notified of its 
availability. 