Direct Memory Access 

Direct memory access (DMA) is an I/O technique that allows a control unit to directly access main 
memory. This means that once reading or writing has begun, the remainder of the data can be 
transferred to and from memory without CPU intervention. However, it is possible that the DMA 
control unit and the CPU will compete for the system bus if they happen to need it at the same 
time. To activate this process, the CPU sends enough information, such as the type of operation 
(read or write), the unit number of the I/O device needed, the location in memory where data is 
to be read from or written to, and the amount of data (bytes or words) to be transferred, to the 
DMA control unit to initiate the transfer of data, the CPU then can go on 
to another task while the control unit completes the transfer independently. The DMA 
controller sends an interruption to the CPU to indicate that the operation is completed. This mode 
of data transfer is used for high-speed devices such as fast secondary storage devices.  
Without DMA, the CPU is responsible for the movement of data between main memory and 
the device, a time-consuming task that results in significant overhead and decreased CPU 
utilization. 

Buffers enable better handling of the movement of data between the relatively slow I/O devices 
and the very fast CPU. Buffers are temporary storage areas built into convenient locations 
throughout the system including main memory, channels, and control units. They are used to store 
data read from an input device before it is needed by the processor, as well as to store data that 
will be written to an output device. A typical use of buffers (mentioned earlier in this chapter) 
occurs when blocked records are either read from or written to an I/O device. In this case, one 
physical record contains several logical records and must reside in memory while the 
processing of each individual record takes place. 
 
For example, if a block contains five records, then a physical READ occurs with every six READ 
commands; all other READ requests are directed to retrieve information from the buffer (this 
buffer may be set by the application program). 
To minimize the idle time for devices and, even more importantly, to maximize their 
throughput, the technique of double buffering is used, as shown in Figure 4.9. In this system, two 
buffers are present in the main memory, the channels, and the control units. The objective is to 
have a record ready to be transferred to or from memory at any time to avoid any possible 
delay that might be caused by waiting for a buffer to fill up with data. Thus, while one 

record is being processed by the CPU, another can be read or written by the channel. 

Figure 4.9 
 
Figure 4.9 illustrates an example of double buffering: (a) the CPU is reading from Buffer 1 as Buffer 
2 is being filled from the disk; (b) once Buffer 2 is filled, it can be read quickly by the CPU 
while Buffer 1 is being filled again. 
 
When using blocked records, upon receipt of the command to “READ last logical record,” the 
channel can start reading the next physical record, which results in overlapped I/O and processing. 
When the first READ command is received, two records are transferred from the device to 
immediately fill both buffers. Then data transfer begins. Once the data from one buffer has 
been processed, the second buffer is already ready. As the second buffer is being ready, the first 
buffer is being filled with data from a third record, and so on.