The first-fit allocation assumes that the memory manager keeps two lists (one for free memory 
blocks and one for busy memory blocks). The operation consists of a simple loop that compares 
the size of each job to the size of each memory block until a block is found that is large enough 
to fit the job. Then the job is stored into that block of memory, and the manager fetches the next 
job from the entry queue. If the entire list is searched in vain, then the job is placed into a waiting 
queue. The Memory Manager then fetches the next job and repeats the process. 
 
Figure 2.4 
 
Job 1 is allocated to the closest- fitting free partition, as are Job2 and Job3. Job4 is allocated to 
the only available partition although it is not the best-fitting one. In this scheme, all four jobs are 
served without waiting. Note that the memory list is ordered according to memory size. This 
scheme uses memory more efficiently, but it is slower to implement. 
 
In Table 2.1 below a request for a block of 200 spaces has just been given to the Memory 
Manager. The spaces may be words, bytes, or any other unit the system handles. Using the first- 
fit scheme and starting from the top of the list, the manager locates the first block of memory 
large enough to accommodate the job, which is at location 6785. The job is then loaded, starting 
at location 6785 and occupying the next 200 spaces. The next step is to adjust the free list to 
indicate that the block of free memory now starts at location 6985 and that it contains only 400 
spaces. 

Table 2.1 
 
Table 2.1 above illustrate two snapshots of memory with the status of each memory block before 
and after 200 spaces are allocated at address 6785, using the first-fit algorithm. 
 
The best-fit algorithm is slightly more complex because the goal is to find the smallest memory 
block into which the job will fit. One of the problems with this is that the entire table must be 
searched before an allocation can be made, because the memory blocks are physically stored in 
sequence according to their location in the memory, and not by memory block sizes. The system 
could execute an algorithm to continuously rearrange the list in ascending order by memory block 
size, but that would add more overhead and might not be an efficient use of processing time in 
the long run. 
 
The best-fit algorithm is illustrated showing only the list of free memory blocks. Table 2.2 shows 
the free list before and after the best-fit block has been allocated to the same request presented 
in Table 2.1.