7.5 Process Management 
Windows is a preemptive, multitasking, multi-threaded operating system. By default, a process 
contains one thread, which is composed of a unique identifier, the contents of a volatile set of 
registers, indicating the processor’s state; two stacks used during the thread’s execution; and a private 
storage area that can be used by subsystems and dynamic link libraries. 
For systems with multiple processors, a process can have as many threads as there are CPUs available. 
The overhead incurred by a thread is minimal. In some cases, it is actually advantageous to split a 
single application into multiple threads because the entire program is then much easier to 
understand. Figure 7.2 below shows multitasking using multithreading. The figure shown below shows 
how a process with four threads can be scheduled for execution on a system with four processors. 
 
Figure 7.2 

7.6. Device Management 
The I/O system must accommodate the needs of existing devices, from a pointing device, to 
keyboards, printers, displays, storage units, multimedia, and networks. In addition, the operating 
system must consider future storage and input technologies. 
The I/O system provides a uniform high-level interface for executive-level I/O operations and 
eliminates the need for applications to account for differences among physical devices. It shields the 
rest of the operating system from the details of device manipulation and, thus, minimizes and isolates 
hardware-dependent code. 
The I/O system in Windows is designed to provide the following: multiple installable file systems, 
services to make device-driver development as easy as possible yet workable on multiprocessor 
systems, the ability for system administrators to add or remove drivers from the system dynamically, 
fast I/O processing while allowing drivers to be written in a high-level language, and mapped file I/O 
capabilities for image activation, file caching, and application use. 
To make sure the operating system works with a wide range of hardware peripherals, Windows 
provides a device-independent model for I/O services. This model takes advantage of a concept, 
called a multilayered device driver, that’s not found in operating systems, such as MS-DOS with 
monolithic device drivers. These multilayered drivers provide a large and complex set of services that 
are understood by an intermediate layer of the operating system. 
Each device driver is made up of a standard set of routines, including those listed in Table 7.2. 
 
Table 7.2 

A driver object may have multiple device objects connected to it. The list of device objects represents 
the physical, logical, and virtual devices that are controlled by the driver. For example, each sector of 
a hard disk has a separate device object with sector specific information. However, the same hard disk 
driver is used to access all sectors. When a driver is unloaded from the system, the I/O Manager uses 
the queue of device objects to determine which devices will be affected by the removal of the driver. 
 
Using objects to keep track of information about drivers frees the I/O Manager from having to know 
details about individual drivers, it just follows a pointer to locate a driver. This provides portability and 
allows new drivers to be easily loaded. Another advantage to representing devices and drivers with 
different objects is that, if the system configuration changes, it is easier to assign drivers to control 
additional or different devices. 

Another device driver feature of recent Windows operating systems is that almost all low-level I/O
operations are asynchronous. This means that when an application issues an I/O request, it does not
have to wait for data to be transferred, it can continue to perform other work while a data transfer is
taking place. Asynchronous I/O must be specified by the process when it opens a file handle. During
asynchronous operations, the process must be careful not to access any data from the I/O operation
until the device driver has finished the data transfer. Asynchronous I/O is useful for operations that
take a long time to complete, or when completion time is variable.