Sniffers and Spoofing 
 
If sensitive data is sent over a network or the Internet in cleartext, without encryption, it becomes 
vulnerable at numerous sites across the network. Packet sniffers, also called sniffers, are 
programs that reside on computers attached to the network. They peruse data packets as they 
pass by, examine each one for specific information, and log copies of interesting packets for 
more detailed examination. Sniffing is particularly problematic in wireless networks. Anyone with 
a wireless device can detect a wireless network that’s within range. If the network is passing cleartext 
packets, it is quite easy to intercept, read, modify, and resend them. The information sought ranges 
from passwords, Social Security numbers, and credit card numbers to industrial secrets and marketing 
information. This vulnerability is a fundamental shortcoming of cleartext transmission over the 
Internet. 
Wireless security is a special area of system security that is too vast to cover here. Readers are 
encouraged to pursue the subject in current literature for the latest research, tools, and best 
practices. 
Spoofing is a security threat that relies on cleartext transmission, whereby the assail- ant falsifies the 
IP addresses of an Internet server by changing the address recorded in packets it sends over the 
Internet. This technique is useful when unauthorized users want to disguise themselves as friendly 
sites. For example, to guard confidential information on an internal network (intranet), some Web 
servers allow access only to users from certain sites; however, by spoofing the IP address, the server 
could inadvertently admit unauthorized users. 

Password Management 
 
The most basic techniques used to protect hardware and software investments are good passwords 
and careful user training, but this is not as simple as it might appear. Many users forget their 
passwords, rarely change them, often share them, and consider them bothersome. 
 
Password Construction 
 
If they are constructed correctly, passwords can be one of the easiest and most effective 
protection schemes to implement. A good password is unusual, memorable to the user, not obvious, 
and changed often. Ideally, the password should be a combination of characters and 
numbers, something that is easy for the user to remember but difficult for someone else to guess. 
Ideally, the password is committed to memory, not written down, and not included in a script file 
to log on to a network. 
There are several reliable techniques for generating a good password: 
 
• Use a minimum of eight characters, including numbers and symbols. 
• Create a misspelled word or join bits of phrases into a word that’s easy to remember. 
• Following a certain pattern on the keyboard, generate new passwords easily by starting your 
sequence with a different letter each time. 
• Create acronyms from memorable sentences. 
• If the operating system differentiates between uppercase and lowercase characters, as UNIX, 
Linux and Android do, users should take advantage of this feature by using both in the password. 
• Avoid words that appear in any dictionary. 

Typical Password Attacks 
 
A dictionary attack is the term used to describe a method of breaking encrypted pass- words. Its 
requirements are simple: a copy of the encrypted password file and the algorithm used to 
encrypt the passwords. With these two tools, the intruder runs a software program that takes every 
word in the dictionary, runs it through the password encryption algorithm, and compares the 
encrypted result to the encrypted passwords contained in the file. If both encrypted versions match, 
then the intruder knows which dictionary word was used as a legitimate password. 