Tree 
 
The tree topology is a collection of buses. The communication line is a branching cable with no closed 
loops, as shown in Figure 6.5. 
 
Figure 6.5 
 
Figure 6.5 Tree topology. Data flows up and down the branches of the trees and is absorbed by 
controllers at the end points. Gateways help minimize the differences between the protocol used on 
one part of the network and a different protocol used on the branch with host 7. 
 
The tree layout begins at the head end, where one or more cables start. Each cable may have branches 
that may, in turn, have additional branches, potentially resulting in quite complex arrangements. 
Using bridges as special fitters between buses of the same protocol and as translators to those with 
different protocols allows designers to create networks that can operate at speeds highly responsive 
to the hosts in the network. In a tree configuration, a message from any site circulates through the 
communication line and can be received by all other sites until it reaches the end points. If a message 
reaches an end point controller without being accepted by a host, the end point controller absorbs 
it, it is not turned around as it is when using a bus topology. One advantage of bus and tree 
topologies is that even if a single node fails, message traffic can still flow through the network. 
 
Hybrid 
A hybrid topology is a combination of any of the topologies discussed here. For example, a hybrid can 
be made by replacing a single host in a star configuration with a ring, as shown in Figure 6.6. 
Alternatively, a star configuration could have a bus topology as one of the communication lines 
feeding its hub, as shown in Figure 6.7. 
 
Figure 6.6 
 
Figure 6.6 shows a hybrid topology, version 1. This network combines a star and a ring, connected 
by a bridge. Hosts 5, 6, 7, and 8 are located on the ring. 
 
 
Figure 6.7 
 
Figure 6.7 shows a hybrid topology, version 2. This network combines star and bus 
topologies. Hosts5, 6, 7, and 8 are located on the bus. 
The objective of a hybrid configuration is to select among the strong points of each topology and 
combine them to meet that system’s communication requirements most effectively. 
