Metropolitan Area Network 
A metropolitan area network (MAN) defines a configuration spanning an area larger than a LAN, 
ranging from several blocks of buildings to an entire city, but generally not exceeding a circumference 
of 100 kilometers. In some instances, MANs are owned and operated as public utilities, providing the 
means for internetworking several LANs. 
A MAN is a high-speed network that can be configured as a logical ring. Depending on the protocol 
used, messages are either transmitted in one direction using only one ring, as illustrated in Figure 6.2, 
or in both directions using two counter-rotating rings, as illustrated in Figure 9.5. One ring always 
carries messages in one direction and the other always carries messages in the opposite direction. 

Wide Area Network 
 
A wide area network (WAN) defines a configuration that interconnects communication facilities 
in different parts of the world, or that is operated as part of a public utility. WANs use the 
communication lines of common carriers, which are government-regulated private companies, such 
as telephone companies, that already provide homes and offices with communication facilities. 
WANs use a broad range of communication media. In some cases, the speed of transmission is limited 
by the capabilities of the communication line. WANs are generally slower than LANs. The first WAN, 
called ARPANET, was developed in 1969 by the U.S. Department of Defense group called the 
Advanced Research Projects Agency (ARPA). ARPANET’s successor, the Internet, is the most widely 
recognized WAN. 

Wireless Local Area Network 
 
A wireless local area network (WLAN) is a local area network that uses wireless technology to connect 
computers or workstations located within the range of the network. As shown in Table 6.1, the 
Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers (IEEE) has specified several standards for wireless 
networking, each with different ranges. 
 
Table 6.1 
 
Table 6 .1 shows Comparison of IEEE standards for wireless networks (IEEE, 2014). 
 
For wireless nodes (workstations, laptops, and so on), a WLAN can provide easy access to a larger 
network or the Internet, as shown in Figure 6.9. Keep in mind that a WLAN typically poses security 

vulnerabilities because of its open architecture, and the constant difficulty of keeping out 
unauthorized intruders. 

Figure 6.9 
 
Figure 6.9 shows a WLAN, wireless enabled nodes connect to the cabled LAN via access points (APs), 
if they are located within the range of the device sending the signal. 
 
The mobile WiMAX standard (802.16), approved by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics 
Engineers, delivers high-bandwidth data over long distances (IEEE, 2014). This is a fast-changing 
subject, so we encourage you to research current literature for the latest developments. 