7.7. File Management 
Typically, an operating system is associated with the file structure that it uses for mass storage devices, 
such as hard disks. Although there is a resident NTFS, current versions of Windows are designed to be 
independent of the file system on which they operate. 
In recent versions of Windows, the primary file-handling concept is the virtual file, introduced with 
UNIX. This includes any I/O source or destination, and it’s treated as if it were a file. In Windows, 
programs perform I/O on virtual files, manipulating them by using file handles. Although not a new 
concept, in Windows, a file handle refers to an executive file object that represents all sources and 
destinations of I/O. Processes call native file object services, such as those required to read from or 
write to a file. The I/O Manager directs these virtual file requests to real files, file directories, physical 
devices, or any other destination supported by the system. File objects have hierarchical names, are 

protected by object-based security, support synchronization, and are handled by object services. 
When opening a file, a process supplies the file’s name, and the type of access required. This request 
moves to an environment subsystem that, in turn, calls a system service. The Object Manager starts 
an object name lookup and turns control over to the I/O Manager to find the file object. The I/O 
Manager checks the security subsystem to determine whether access can be granted. The I/O 
Manager also uses the file object to determine whether asynchronous I/O operations are required. 
The creation of file objects helps bridge the gap between the characteristics of physical devices and 
directory structures, file system structures, and data formats. File objects provide a memory-based 
representation of shareable physical resources. When a file is opened, the I/O Manager returns a 
handle to a file object. The Object Manager treats file objects like all other objects until the time 
comes to write to or read from a device, at which point the Object Manager calls the I/O Manager for 
assistance to access the device. Figure 7.3 illustrates the contents of file objects and the services that 
operate on them. 

File    

Filename Device 
Type Byte Offset 
Share Mode 
Open Mode 
File Disposition 
Create File 
Open File 
Read File 
Write File 
Query File Information 
Set File Information 
Query Extended Attributes 
Set Extended Attributes 
Lock Byte Range 
Unlock Byte Range 
Cancel I/O 
Flush Buffers 
Query Directory File 
Notify Caller When Directory Changes 
Get Volume Information 
Set Volume Information 
Figure 7.3 