5.2. Definitions 

1. Field is a group of related bytes that can be identified by the user with a name, type, and size. 
2. Record is a group of related fields. 
3. File is a group of related records that contains information to be used by specific application 
programs to generate reports. 
4. Database is a group of related files that are connected at various levels to offer flexible access to 
the data stored in it. 
5. Program files contain instructions and data files contain data; however, as far as storage is 
concerned, the File Manager treats them both the same way. 
6. Directories (also known as folders) are special files that contain listings of filenames and their 
attributes. 
 
Figure 5.1 
 
Figure 5.1 above shows a structured representation of records and fields in a database table.

5.3. Interacting with the File Manager 
The File Manager responds to specific proprietary commands to perform necessary actions. Some of 
the most common commands are OPEN, DELETE, RENAME, and COPY. In addition to these examples, 
the File Manager extrapolates other system-specific actions from the instructions it receives. For 
example, although there is no explicit command to create a new file, this is what happens the first time 
a user gives the command to “save” a new file, one that has not been saved previously. Therefore, this 
is interpreted as a CREATE command. 

If the File Manager is required to provide detailed instructions for each system device, how to start it, 
get it to the correct place where the desired record is located, and when to stop, then the program is  
considered device dependent. More commonly, if this information is already available, usually in a 
device driver, then the program is considered device independent. 
Therefore, to access a file, the user does not need to know its exact physical location on the disk pack 
(such as the cylinder, surface, and sector), the medium in which it is stored (archival tape, magnetic 
disk, optical disc, or flash storage), or network specifics. This is fortunate, because file access can be a 
complex process. Each logical command is broken down into a sequence of signals that trigger the step- 
by-step actions performed by the device and supervise the progress of the operation by testing the 
device’s status.  