First-In First-Out 
The first-in first-out (FIFO) page replacement policy will remove the pages that have been in 
memory the longest, that is, those that were first in. The process of swapping pages is illustrated in 
Figure 2.9. 
 
• Step 1: Page A is moved into the first available page frame. 
• Step 2: Page B is moved into the second available page frame. 
• Step 3: Page A is swapped into secondary storage. 
• Step 4: Page C is moved into the first available page frame. 
• Step 5: Page B is swapped into secondary storage. 
• Step 6: Page A is moved into the second available page frame. 

Figure 2.9 
 
Figure 2.9 First, Pages A and B are loaded into the two available page frames. When Page 
C is needed, the first page frame is emptied so that C can be placed there. Then Page B is 
swapped outso that Page A can be loaded there. 
 
Figure 3.8 demonstrates how the FIFO algorithm works by following a job with four pages 
(A, B, C, and D) as it is processed by a system with only two available page frames. The job 
needs to have itspages processed in the following order: A, B, A, C, A, B, D, B, A, C, D. 
 
When both page frames are occupied, each new page that is brought into memory will 
cause an interruption and a page swap into secondary storage. A page interruption, which 
we identify with an asterisk (*), is generated anytime a page needs to be loaded into 
memory, whether a page is swapped out or not. Then, we count the number of page 
interrupts and compute the failure rate andthe success rate. 
 
The efficiency of this configuration is dismayed due to the limited number of page frames 
available,there are 9-page interrupts out of 11-page requests. To calculate the failure rate, 
we divide the number of interruptions by the number of page requests: 
Failure-Rate = Number_of_Interrupts / Page_Requests_Made 
 
The failure rate of this system is 9/11, which is 82 percent. Stated another way, the success 
rate is 2/11, or 18 percent. A failure rate that is this high is often unacceptable. 
We are not saying FIFO is bad. We chose this example to show how FIFO works, not to 
diminish its appeal as a page replacement policy. The high-failure rate here was caused by 
both the limited amount of memory available, and the order in which pages were requested by 
the program. Because the job dictates the page order, this order cannot be changed by the 
system, although the size of the mainmemory can be changed. However, buying more 
memory may not always be the best solution especially when you have many users, and 
each one wants an unlimited amount of memory. In otherwords, as explained later in this 
chapter, there is no guarantee that buying more memory will always result in better 
performance.