Figure 2.2 below reflects First-Fit Allocation, where books are placed in the first available space 
leading to poor utilization and larger gaps.  
 
Figure 2.2 
 
The bookshelf in figure 2.1 uses the best-fit allocation with books stacked on shelves according 
to their height, that is all the tall books and no short books, are grouped together on shelves that 
can accommodate them. The bookshelf in figure 2.2 is a first-fit allocation, where some tall books 
share space with small books. 
 
If the lists are organized by size, you are optimizing your shelf space, as books arrive, you will be 
able to put them in the spaces that fit them best. This is a best-fit allocation. If a paperback is 
returned, you will place it on a shelf with the other paperbacks or at least with other small books. 
Similarly, oversized books will be shelved with other large books. Your lists make it easy to find 
the smallest available empty space where the book can fit. The disadvantage of this system is 
that you are wasting time looking for the best space. Your other customers must wait for you to 
put each book away, so you will not be able to process as many customers as you could with the 
other kind of list. 

In the second case, a list organized by shelf location, you are optimizing the time it takes you to 
put books back onto the shelves by using a first-fit scheme. This system ignores the size of the 
book that you are trying to put away. If the same paperback book arrives you can quickly find it 
an empty space. In fact, any nearby empty space will suffice if it is large enough and if it is close 
to your desk. In this case, you are optimizing the time it takes you to shelve the books. This is the 
fast method of shelving books and if speed is important, it is the better of the two alternatives. 
However, it is not a good choice if your shelf space is limited, or if many large books are returned, 
because large books must wait for the large spaces. If all your large spaces are filled with small 
 
books, the customers returning large books must wait until a suitable space becomes available. 
Eventually you will need time to rearrange the books and compact your collection. 
Figure 2.3 shows how a large job can have problems with a first-fit memory allocation list. Jobs 1, 
2, and 4 can enter the system and begin execution. Job 3 must wait even though there would be 
more than enough room to accommodate it if all the fragments of memory were added together. 
First-fit offers fast allocation, but it is not always efficient. On the other hand, the same job list 
using a best-fit scheme would use memory more efficiently, as shown in Figure 2.4. In this case, 
a best-fit scheme would yield better memory utilization. 
 
Figure 2.3 
 
Using a first-fit allocation, Job 1 claims the first available space. Job 2 then claims the first partition 
large enough to accommodate it, but by doing so it takes the last block large enough to 
accommodate Job 3. Therefore, Job 3 (indicated by the asterisk) must wait until a large block 
becomes available, even though there is 75K of unused memory space (internal fragmentation). 