Magnetic Disk Storage 
Magnetic disk drives, such as computer hard drives (and the floppy disk drives of yester- year), 
usually feature read/write heads that float over each surface of each disk. Disk drives can have 
a single platter, or a stack of magnetic platters, called a disk pack. Figure 4.5 shows a typical 
disk pack, several platters stacked on a common central spindle, separated by enough space to 
allow the read/write heads to move between each pair of disks. 
 
Figure 4.5 
 
Figure 4.5 A disk pack is a stack of magnetic platters. The read/write heads move on each 
surface, and all the heads are moved in unison by the arm.  
 
As shown in Figure 4.5, each platter has two surfaces for recording (top and bottom), and 
each surface is formatted with a specific number of concentric tracks where the data is recorded. 
The precise number of tracks can vary widely, but typically there are a thousand or more on a high- 
capacity hard disk. Each track on each surface is numbered with the outermost circle as Track 0 
and the highest-numbered track in the center. 

The arm, shown in Figure 4.6, moves two read/write heads between each pair of surfaces: one for 
the surface above it and one for the surface below, as well as one for the uppermost surface 
and another for the lowermost surface. The arm moves all the heads in unison, so if one head 
is on Track 36, then all the heads are on Track 36, even if there are many platters, in other 
words, they are all positioned on the same track but over their respective surfaces, 

thus, creating a virtual cylinder. 

Figure 4.6 
 
sFigure 4.6 A typical hard drive from a PC showing the arm that floats over the surface of the 
disk. © Courtesy Seagate Technology. 
 
This raises some interesting questions: Is it more efficient to write a series of records on surface 
one, and then, when that surface is full, to continue writing on surface two, and then on 
surface three, and so on? Or is it better to fill up every outside track of every surface before moving 
the heads inward to the next track position to continue writing? 
 
It is slower to fill a disk pack surface-by-surface than it is to fill it up track-by-track, this leads us to 
a valuable concept. If we fill in Track 0 of all the surfaces, we have got a virtual cylinder of data. 
There are as many cylinders as there are tracks, and the cylinders are as tall as the disk pack. You 
could visualize the cylinders as a series of smaller and smaller soup cans, each nested inside the 
larger ones. 
 
To access any given record, the system needs three things: its cylinder number, so that the arm 
can move the read/write heads to it, its surface number, so that the proper read/write head 
is activated, and its sector number. A typical disk is shown in Figure 4.7. 

Figure 4.7 
 
Figure 4.7 shows a magnetic disk, the sectors are of different sizes: bigger at the rim and smaller 
at the center. The disk spins at a constant angular velocity (CAV) to compensate for this difference. 
 
One clarification: We’ve used the term surface in this discussion because it makes the concepts 
easier to understand. However, conventional literature generally uses the term track to identify 
both the surface and the concentric track. Therefore, our use of surface and track coincides 
with the term track or head used in some other texts.