4.2. Management of I/O Requests 
Although many users may think of an I/O request as an elementary machine action, the Device 
Manager divides the task into three parts with each one handled by a specific software 
component of the device management subsystem. The I/O traffic controller watches the status of 
all devices, control units, and channels. The I/O scheduler implements the policies that determine 
the allocation of, and access to, the devices, control units, and channels. The I/O device handler 
performs the actual transfer of data and processes the device interrupts. 
 
The I/O traffic controller monitors the status of every device, control unit, and channel. It 
is a job that becomes more complex as the number of units in the I/O sub-system increases, 
and as the number of paths between these units increases. The traffic controller has three 
main tasks to perform for each I/O request: (1) it must determine if there is at least one 
path to a device of the requested type available; (2) if there is more than one path 
available, it must determine which to select; and (3) if the paths are all busy, it must determine 
when one will become available. To do all this, the traffic controller maintains a database 
containing the status and connections for each unit in the I/O subsystem, grouped into 
Channel Control Blocks, Control Unit Control Blocks, and Device Control Blocks, as illustrated 
in Figure 4.2. 
 
Figure 4 . 2 
 
Figure 4.2 Each control block contains the information it needs to manage the channels, 
control units, and devices in the I/O subsystem. 
 
To choose a free path to satisfy an I/O request, the traffic controller traces backward from 
the control block of the requested device through the control units to the channels. If a path 
is not available, a common occurrence under heavy load conditions, the process is linked to 
the queues kept in the control blocks of the requested device, control unit, and channel. This 
creates multiple wait queues with one queue per path. Later, when a path becomes available, the 
traffic controller selects the first PCB from the queue for that path. 
 
The I/O scheduler performs a job analogous to the one performed by the Process Scheduler 
described in Chapter 3 on Processor Management, that is, it allocates the devices, control units, 
and channels. Under heavy loads, when the number of requests is greater than the number of 
available paths, the I/O scheduler must decide which request to satisfy first. Many of the 
criteria and objectives discussed in Chapter 3 also apply here. In many systems, the major 
difference between I/O scheduling and process scheduling is that I/O requests are not preempted. 
Once the channel program has started, it is allowed to continue to completion even though 
I/O requests with higher priorities may have entered the queue. This is feasible because channel 
programs are relatively short, 50 to 100 ms. Other systems sub-divide an I/O request into several 
stages and allow pre-emption of the I/O request at any one of these stages. 
 
Some systems allow the I/O scheduler to give preferential treatment to I/O requests from 
high- priority programs. In that case, if a process has a high priority, then its I/O requests would 
also have high priority and would be satisfied before other I/O requests with lower priorities. The 
I/O scheduler must synchronize its work with the traffic controller to make sure that a path 
is available to satisfy the selected I/O requests. 
 
The I/O device handler processes the I/O interrupts, handles error conditions, and provides 
detailed scheduling algorithms, which are extremely device dependent. Each type of I/O device 
has its own device handler algorithm. Later in this chapter, we explore several algorithms for hard 
disk drives. 