Concurrency Control 
 
Concurrency control techniques give the system the ability to perform concurrent reads and 
writes, if the results of these actions do not jeopardize the contents of the database. This means that 
the results of all concurrent transactions are the same as if the transactions had been executed 
one at a time, in some arbitrary serial order, thereby providing the serial execution view on a 
database. The concurrency control mechanism keeps the database in a consistent state as the 
transactions are processed. 
 
Data Redundancy 
 
Data redundancy also has beneficial aspects from a disaster recovery standpoint because, if one site 
fails, operations can be restarted at another site with the same resources. Later, the failed site 
can be reinstated by copying all the files that have been updated since the failure. The disadvantage 
of redundant data is the task of always keeping multiple copies of the same file up to date. Every time 
a file is updated, every other copy of the file must be updated in an identical way, and the 
update must be performed in strict adherence to the system’s reliability standards. 
 
Location Transparency and Distributed Directory 
 
Location transparency means that users do not need to be concerned with the physical location of 
their files. This is the essence of cloud computing. Instead, users deal with the network as a single 
system. Location transparency is provided by mechanisms and directories, which map logical data 
items to physical locations. The mechanisms usually use information about data, which are stored at 
all sites in the form of directories. 

Deadlock Resolution or Recovery 
 
Deadlock detection, prevention, avoidance, and recovery are all strategies used by a distributed 
system. 
➢ To detect circular wait’s, the system uses direct resource graphs and looks for cycles. 
➢ To prevent circular waits, the system tries to delay the start of a transaction until it has all the 
resources it will request during its execution. 
➢ To avoid circular waits, the system tries to allow execution only when it knows that the 
transaction can run to completion. 
➢ To recover from a deadlock caused by circular waits, the system selects the best victim, 
one that can be restarted without much difficulty, and one that, when terminated, will free 
enough resources so that the others can finish. Then the system kills the victim, forces that 
process to restart from the beginning, and reallocates its resources to other waiting processes.

Query Processing 
 
Query processing is the function of processing requests for information. Query processing techniques 
try to increase the effectiveness of global query execution sequences, local site processing sequences, 
and device processing sequences. All of these relate directly to the network’s global process 
scheduling problem. Therefore, to ensure consistency of the entire system’s scheduling scheme, the 
query processing strategy must be an integral part of the processing scheduling strategy. 
 
  