7.8. Network Management 
In a Windows operating system, networking is an integral part of the operating system executive by 
providing services such as user accounts, and resource security. It also provides mechanisms to 
implement communication among networked computers, such as with named pipes and mailslots. 
Named pipes provide a high-level interface for passing data between two processes regardless of their 
location. Mailslots provide one-to-many and many-to-one communication mechanisms, useful for 
broadcasting messages to any number of processes. 

The Active Directory database stores many types of information and serves as a general- purpose 
directory service for a heterogeneous network. 
Microsoft built the Active Directory entirely around the Domain Name Service or Domain Name 
System (DNS) and Lightweight Directory Access Protocol (LDAP). DNS is the hierarchical replicated 
naming service on which the Internet is built. However, although DNS is the backbone directory 
protocol for one of the largest data networks, it does not provide enough flexibility to act as an 
enterprise directory by itself. That is, DNS is primarily a service for mapping machine names to 
Internet protocol (IP) addresses, which is not enough for a full directory service. A full directory service 
must be able to map the names of arbitrary objects, such as machines and applications, to any kind 
of information about those objects. 

The Active Directory groups machines into administrative units called domains, each of which gets a 
DNS domain name, such as pitt.edu. Each domain must have at least one domain controller, that is, 
a machine running the Active Directory server. 
For improved fault tolerance and performance, a domain can have more than one domain controller, 
with each holding a complete copy of that domain’s directory database. 
 
Current versions of Windows eliminate the distinction between primary domain controllers and 
backup domain controllers, removing the multiple hierarchies and making the network simpler to 
administer. Active Directory clients use standard DNS and LDAP protocols to locate objects on the 
network. As shown in Figure 7.4, here is how it works: 
A client that needs to look up an Active Directory name first passes the DNS part of the name to a 
standard DNS server. The DNS server returns the network address of the domain controller 
responsible for that name. 

Figure 7.5 
