6.3. Circuit Switching 
Circuit switching is a communication model in which a dedicated communication path is established 
between two hosts. The path is a connected sequence of links, the connection between the two 
points exists until one of them is disconnected. The connection path must be set up before data 
transmission begins, therefore, if the entire path becomes unavailable, messages cannot be 
transmitted because the circuit will not be complete. The telephone system is a good example of 
a circuit-switch network. 
 
In terms of performance, there is a delay before signal transfer begins while the connection is set up. 
However, once the circuit is completed, the network is transparent to users, and information is 
transmitted at a fixed rate of speed with insignificant delays at intermediate nodes. 

Packet Switching 
 
Packet switching is basically a store-and-forward technique in which a message is divided into 
multiple, equal-sized units called packets, the packets are duplicated and then sent individually 
through the networks toward their destination, often along different paths. After they arrive, 
the packets are reassembled into their original order, duplicates are discarded, and the entire 
message is delivered intact, as illustrated in Figure 6.10. 
 
Figure 6.10 
 
Figure 6.10 A packet switching network does not require a dedicated connection. It sends packets 
using a three- step procedure: (a) divide the data into addressed packets; (b) send each packet toward 
its destination; (c) and, at the destination, confirm receipt of all packets, place them in order, 
reassemble the data, and deliver it to the recipient. 
 
Packet switching is an effective technology for long-distance data transmission. Because it permits 
data transmission between devices that receive or transmit data at different rates, it provides 
more flexibility than circuit switching. However, there is no guarantee that after a message has been 
divided into packets, the packets will all travel along the same path to their destination, or that they 
will arrive in their physical sequential order. I