the same path to their destination, or that they 
will arrive in their physical sequential order. In addition, packets from one message may be 
interspersed with those from other messages as they travel toward their destinations. To prevent 
these problems, a header containing pertinent information about the packet is attached to each 
packet before it is transmitted. The information contained in the packet header varies according to 
the routing method used by the network. 

The idea is like sending a series of 30 reference books through a package delivery system. Six 
boxes contain five volumes each, and each box is labeled with its sequence number (e.g., box 2 of 6), 
as well as its ultimate destination. As space on passing delivery trucks becomes available, each box is 
forwarded to a central switching center, where it is stored until space becomes available to send it to 
the next switching center, getting closer to its destination each time. Eventually, when all six boxes 
arrive, they are put in their original order, the 30 volumes are unpacked, and the original sequence 
is restored. 
 
As shown in Table 6.2, packet switching is fundamentally different from circuit switching. 
 
Table 6.2 
 
Packet switching provides greater line efficiency because a single node-to-node circuit can be shared 
by several packets and does not sit idle over long periods of time. Although delivery may be delayed 
as traffic increases, packets can still be accepted and transmitted. 
 
This is also in contrast to circuit switching networks, which, when they become overloaded, refuse to 
accept new connections until the load decreases. If you have ever tried to buy tickets for a popular 
concert when they first go on sale, then you have experienced an issue like a circuit switching 
network’s overload response. 
 
Packet switching allows users to allocate priorities to their messages so that a router with several 
packets queued for transmission can send the higher priority packets first. In addition, packet 
switching networks are more reliable than other types because most nodes are connected by more 
than one link, so that if one circuit fails, a completely different path may be established between 
nodes. 