6.7. Role of the Operating System in Security 
Because it has access to every part of the system, the operating system plays a key role in computer 
system security. Any vulnerability at the operating system level opens the entire system to attack. 
The more complex and powerful the operating system is, the more likely it is to have vulnerabilities 
to attack. As a result, system administrators must remain on guard to arm their operating systems 
with all the available defenses against attack and possible failure. 

System Survivability 
 
The definition of system survivability is “the capability of a system to fulfill its mission, in a timely 
manner, in the presence of attacks, failures, or accidents” (Linger, 2002). 
➢ The term system refers to any system. It’s used here in the broadest possible sense from 
laptop to distributed system to supercomputer. 
➢ A mission is a very high-level set of requirements or goals. 
➢ In a timely manner, it refers to system response time, a critical factor for most systems. 
➢ The terms attack, failure, and accident refer to any potentially damaging incident, regardless 
of the cause, whether intentional or not. 

Before a system can be considered survivable, it must meet all these requirements, especially with 
respect to services that are considered essential to the organization in the face of adverse challenges. 
The four key properties of survivable systems are resistance to attacks, recognition of attacks and 
resulting damage, recovery of essential services after an attack, and adaptation and evolution of 
system defense mechanisms to mitigate future attacks. 

Backup and Recovery 
 
Standard procedures for most computing systems include having sufficient backup and 4 recovery 
policies in place and performing other archiving techniques. Many system managers use a layered 
backup schedule. That is, they back up the entire system once a week, and only back up, daily, 
the files that were changed that day. As an extra measure of safety, copies of complete system 
backups are stored for three to six months in a safe off-site location. 
Backups are essential when the system becomes unavailable because of a natural disaster or when a 
computer virus infects the system. If the problem is discovered early, the administrator can run 
eradication software and reload damaged files from your backup copies. Of course, any changes made 
since the files were backed up will need to be regenerated. 

Off-site backups are also crucial to disaster recovery. The disaster could come from anywhere. 
Here are just a few of the threats: 

• Water from firehoses being used to fight a fire upstairs 
• Fire from an electrical connection 
• Malfunctioning server 
• Corrupted archival media 
• Intrusion from unauthorized users