Figure 2.2 shows a segmented memory allocation. Job 1 includes a main program and two 
subroutines. It is a single job that is structurally divided into three segments of different sizes. 
 
The Memory Manager needs to keep track of the segments in memory. This is done with three 
tables, combining aspects of both dynamic partitions and demand paging memory management: 

• The Job Table lists every job being processed (one for the whole system). 
• The Segment Map Table lists details about each segment (one for each job). 
• The Memory Map Table monitors the allocation of main memory (one for the whole system). 
 
Like demand paging, the instructions within each segment are ordered sequentially, but the 
segments do not need to be stored contiguously in memory. We just need to know where each 
segment is stored. The contents of the segments themselves are contiguous in this scheme. 
To access a specific location within a segment, we can perform an operation like the one used for 
paged memory management. The only difference is that we work with segments instead of 
pages. The addressing scheme requires the segment number and the displacement within that 
segment; and because the segments are of different sizes, the displacement must be verified to 
make sure it is not outside of the segment’s range. 
  
Figure 2.13 
 
Figure 2.13 illustrates Segment Map Table tracks each segment for this job. Notice that Subroutine B has 
not yet been loaded into memory. 

In Figure 2.14, Segment 1 includes all of Subroutine A, so the system finds the beginning address of 
Segment 1, 7000, and it begins there. 

If the instruction requested that processing begin at byte 100 of Subroutine A (which is possible in 
languages that support multiple entries into subroutines) then, to locate that item in memory, the 
Memory Manager would need to add 100 to 7000 (the beginning address of Segment 1). 
Can the displacement be larger than the size of the segment? No, not if the program is coded 
correctly; however, accidents and attempted exploits do happen, and the Memory Manager must 
always guard against this possibility by checking the displacement against the size of the segment, 
verifying that it is not out of bounds.

Figure 2.14 
 
Figure 2.14 The Segment Map Table tracks each segment for this job. Notice that Subroutine B has 
not yet been loaded into memory. 
To access a location in memory, when using either paged or segmented memory management, 
the address is composed of two values: the page or segment number and the displacement. 
Therefore, it is a two-dimensional addressing scheme, it has two elements: SEGMENT_NUMBER 
and DISPLACEMENT. 