6.5. Memory Management 
For each node, the Memory Manager uses a kernel with a paging algorithm to track the amount 
of memory that is available. The algorithm is based on the goals of the local system, but the policies 
and mechanisms that are used at the local sites are driven by the requirements of the global 
system. To accommodate both local and global needs, memory allocation and de-allocation 
depend on scheduling and resource-sharing schemes that optimize the resources of the entire 
network. 
The Memory Manager works the same way as it does for a stand-alone operating system, but it 
is extended to accept requests for memory from both local and global sources. On a local level, 
the Memory Manager allocates pages based on the local policy. On a global level, it receives requests 
from the Process Manager to provide memory for new, or expanding, client or server processes. The 
Memory Manager also uses local resources to perform garbage collection in memory, perform 
compaction, decide which are the most and least active processes, and determine which processes 
to preempt to provide space for others. 
To control the demand, the Memory Manager handles requests from the Process Manager to allocate 
and deallocate space based on the network’s usage patterns. In a distributed environment, the 
combined memory for the entire network is made up of several sub-pools (one for each processor), 
and the Memory Manager has a subcomponent that exists on each processor. 
When an application tries to access a page that’s not in memory, a page fault occurs, and the Memory
Manager automatically brings that page into memory. If the page is changed while in memory, the
Memory Manager writes the changed page back to the file when it is time to swap the page out of
memory.

Before allocating space, the Memory Manager examines the total free memory table. If the request
can be filled, the memory is allocated, and the table is modified to show the location of the allocated
space. The Memory Manager also manages virtual memory. Specifically, it allocates and de-allocates virtual
memory, reads and writes to virtual memory, swaps virtual pages to disk, gets information about
virtual pages, locks virtual pages in memory, and protects the pages that need to be protected.

Pages are protected using hardware or low-level memory management software in each site’s kernel.
This protection is summoned as pages are loaded into memory. Several typical protection checks are
performed on the pages, as shown in Table 6.3.

Table 6.3 
 
Table 6.3 shows typical protection checks that are performed on pages, as they are loaded into 
memory. The last three controls shown in this table are needed to make sure processes do not write 
to pages that should be read-only. 