7.9. Security Management 
Windows operating systems provide an object-based security model. That is, a security object can 
represent any resource in the system: a file, device, process, program, or user. This allows system 
administrators to give precise security access to specific objects in the system while allowing them 
to monitor and record how objects are used. 
One of the most important tasks for those managing Windows operating systems is the need for 
aggressive patch management to combat the many viruses and worms that target these systems. 
Updates can be scheduled using the Windows Update option, as shown in Figure 7.6. 
 
Security Concerns 
 
Because Windows is so widely used, it is a favorite target for system intruders. Therefore, Windows 
operating systems include several important security features. The first is a secure logon facility that 
requires users to identify themselves by entering a unique logon identifier and a password before 
they are allowed access to the system. To move access control beyond the keyboard, biometric 
identification is available on some systems, as well as built-in options for creating and using 
graphic passwords. 

Figure 7.6 

To protect data at the data structure level, such as in registers, which are released by users when a 
thread or process is completed, a memory protection system thoroughly erases all remaining content 
before the structure is allocated to the next user. 

Device access is also carefully managed. Discretionary access control allows an administrator to 
determine who can access each resource and what they can do to it. In addition, it allows auditing 
capabilities so that administrators can detect and record important security-related events, or any 
attempt to create, access, or delete system resources. 

A second layer of security deals with file access security. At this level, the administrator can create a 
file and establish various combinations of individuals to have access to it because the operating 
system makes distinctions between owners and groups. The creator of a file is its owner. The owner 
can designate a set of users as belonging to a group and allow all the members of the group to have 
access to that file. Conversely, the owner could prevent some of the members from accessing that 
file. In addition to determining the users who are permitted to access a file, administrators can decide 
what type of operations each user is allowed to perform on a file. For example, one may have read- 
only access, while another may have read-and-write privileges. As a final measure, the operating 
system gives the administrator auditing capabilities that automatically keep track of who uses files 
and how the files are used. 