Figure 2.7 
 
Figure 2.7 When you choose one option from the menu of an application program, such as 
this one,the other modules, which are not currently required such as Help, do not need to 
be moved into memory immediately, and, typically, are loaded only when requested. 
The demand paging scheme allows the user to run jobs with less main memory than is 
required if the operating system were using the paged memory allocation scheme (described 
earlier). In fact, a demand paging scheme can give the appearance of vast amounts of 
physical memory when physical memory is significantly less than vast. 
The key to the successful implementation of this scheme is the use of a high-speed direct 
access storage device (often shortened to DASD), which will be discussed in Chapter 7. 
Examples of DASDsinclude hard drives or flash memory. High-speed access is vital because 
this scheme requires pagesto be passed quickly from secondary storage into main memory 
and back again as they are needed. 

How and when the pages are passed (also called swapped) between main memory and 
secondary storage depend on predefined policies that determine when to make room for 
needed pages, and how to do so. The operating system relies on tables, such as the Job Table, 
the Page Map Tables, andthe Memory Map Table, to implement the algorithm. These tables 
are basically the same as for paged memory allocation. With demand paging, there are three 
new fields for each page in each PMT: one to determine if the page being requested is 
already in memory, a second to determine if the page contents have been modified while in 
memory, and a third to determine if the page has been referenced most recently. The fourth 
field, which we discussed earlier in this chapter, shows the page frame number, as shown at 
the top of Figure 3.5. 

The memory field tells the system where to find each page. If it is already in memory (shown 
here with a Y), the system will spare the time required to bring it from secondary storage. 
As one can imagine, it’s faster for the operating system to scan a table located in main 
memory than it is toretrieve a page from a disk or other secondary storage device. 
 
Figure 2.8 
 
In Figure 2.8 Demand paging requires that the Page Map Table for each job keep track of 
each pageas it is loaded or removed from main memory. Each PMT tracks the status of the 
page, whether it has been modified or recently referenced, and the page frame number for 
each page currently in main memory. (Note: For this illustration, the Page Map Tables have 
been simplified. See Table 3.3 for more detail).