Star 
 
Star topology, sometimes called a hub or centralized topology, is a traditional approach to 
interconnecting devices in which all transmitted data must pass through a central controller 
when going from sender to a receiver. For example, as shown in Figure 6.1, host 1 can communicate 
with host 5 directly via the central controller. 
 
Figure 6.1 
 
Figure 6.1 shows a Star topology. Hosts are connected to each other through a central controller, 
which assumes all responsibility for routing messages to the appropriate host. Data flow between the 
hosts and the central controller is represented by dotted lines. Direct host-to-host communication is 
not permitted. 
Star topology permits easy routing because the central station knows the path to all other sites. Also, 
because there is a central control point, access to the network can be controlled easily, and 
priority status can be given to selected sites. However, this centralization of control requires that the 
central site be reliable and able to handle all network traffic, no matter how heavy. 
 
Ring 
 
In the ring topology, all sites are connected to each other in a closed loop, with the first site connected 
to the last. As shown in Figure 6.2, for example, Host 1 can communicate with Host 5 by way of 
Hosts 2, 3, and 4. A ring network can connect to other networks via the bridge or gateway, depending 
on the protocol used by each network. The protocol is the specific set of rules used to control 
the flow of messages through the network. If the other network has the same protocol, then a 
bridge is used to connect the networks. If the other network has a different  
protocol, a gateway is used. 
 
Figure 6.2 
 
Figure 6.2 shows a double loop computer network using a ring topology. Packets of data flow in both 
directions. 
Although ring topologies share the disadvantage that every node must be functional for the network 
to perform properly, rings can be designed that allow failed nodes to be bypassed critical 
consideration for network stability. 