3.5.2 Pre-emptive and Non-pre-emptive Scheduling Algorithms 
In multiprogramming environments, an I/O request is called a natural wait, allowing the CPU to be 
allocated to another job while the request is processed (e.g., printing a book chapter). This 
enhances CPU utilization. 

➢ Pre-emptive Scheduling: Interrupts a job's execution to allocate the CPU to another job, 
enabling better responsiveness and multitasking. 
➢ Non-pre-emptive Scheduling: The job retains the CPU until it finishes or issues an I/O request. 
It lacks external interrupts during execution. 
In both policies, processes in infinite loops can be terminated and moved to the FINISHED queue to 
free up resources.

3.6. Scheduling Algorithms 
The Process Scheduler relies on a scheduling algorithm, based on a specific scheduling policy, to 
allocate the CPU in the best way for moving jobs through the system efficiently. 
 
3.6.1 First Come First Served 
First-Come-First-Served (FCFS) is a non-pre-emptive scheduling algorithm that handles all incoming 
objects according to their arrival time, the earlier they arrive, the sooner they are served. Assuming 
there is no multiprogramming, turnaround time (the time required to execute a job and return the 
output to the user) is unpredictable with the strict FCFS policy. 
Example:

Consider the following three jobs with a run-time that includes the jobs CPU cycles and I/O cycles: 
 
• Job A has a run-time of 15 milliseconds (ms). 
• Job B has a run-time of 2 ms. 
• Job C has a run-time of 1 ms. 
 
Solution: 
 
The timeline shown in Figure 3.5 below shows an FCFS algorithm with an arrival sequence of A, B, 
and C. 

Figure 3.5 
 
If all three jobs arrive in very quick succession (almost simultaneously at time 0), we can calculate 
that the turnaround time (each job’s finish time minus arrival time), for Job A is 15, for Job B is 17, 
and for Job C is 18. So, the average turnaround time is: 
Average turnaround = [(15-0) + (17-0) + (18-0)] / 3 
 
= 16.67 ms 
 
In this example, the turnaround time for Job A is 18, for Job B is 3, and for Job C is 1, and the average 
turnaround time, shown here in the order in which they finish, Job C, Job B, and Job A, is 7.3ms. 