Process-Based DO/S 
 
A process-based DO/S provides process management using client/server processes that are 
synchronized and linked together through messages and ports (the ports are also known as channels 
or pipes). The major emphasis is on processes and messages, and how they provide the basic 
features essential to process management, such as process creation, scheduling, 
pausing, 
communication, and identification, to name a few. 
The issue of how to provide these features can be addressed in several ways. The processes can be 
managed from a single copy of the operating system, from multiple cooperating peers, or from 
some combination of the two. Operating systems for distributed computers are typically configured 
as a kernel on each site. All other services that are dependent on devices are typically found on the 
sites where the devices are located. As users enter the system, the scheduling manager gives them 
a unique process identifier and then assigns them to a site for processing. 
 
In a distributed system, there is a high level of cooperation and sharing among the sites when 
determining which process should be loaded and where it should be run. This is done by exchanging 
messages among site operating systems. Once a process is scheduled for service, it must be initiated 
at the assigned site by a dispatcher. The dispatcher takes directions from the operating system’s 
scheduler, allocates the device to the process, and initiates its execution. This procedure may 
necessitate one of the following: moving a process from memory in one site to memory at 
another site; reorganizing a site’s memory allocation; reorganizing a site’s READY, RUNNING, and 
WAIT queues; and initiating the scheduled process. The Processor Manager recognizes only 
processes and their demands for service. It responds to them based on the established scheduling 
policy, which determines what must be done to manage the processes. As mentioned in earlier 
chapters, policies for scheduling must consider issues such as load balancing, overhead 
minimization, memory loading minimization, first-come first-served, and least-time-remaining. 
 
Object-Based DO/S 
 
An object-based DO/S has a different way of looking at the computer system than a process- 
based DO/S. Instead of viewing the system as a collection of individual resources and processes, the 
system is viewed as a collection of objects. An object can represent a piece of hardware 
(such as a CPU or memory), software (such as files, programs, semaphores, and data), or a 
combination of the two (printers, scanners, and USB ports, each bundled with the software required 
to operate it). Each object in the system has a unique identifier to differentiate it from all other 
objects in the system. 
Objects are viewed by the operating system as abstract entities, data types that can go through 
a change of state, act according to set patterns, be manipulated, or exist in relation to other objects 
in a manner appropriate to the object’s semantics in the system. This means that objects have a set 
of unchanging properties that defines them and their behavior within the context of their defined 
parameters. For example, a writable CD (CD-R) drive has unchanging properties that include the 
following: Data can be written to a disc, data can be read from a disc, reading and writing cannot 
take place concurrently, and the data’s beginning and ending points cannot be compromised. If 
we use these simple rules to construct a simulation of a CD-R drive, we have created an 
accurate representation of this object