Kernel Level 
 
The kernel level, illustrated in Figure 6.12, provides the basic mechanisms for building the operating 
system by creating, managing, scheduling, synchronizing, and deleting objects; and it does so 
dynamically. For example, when an object is created, it is assigned all the resources needed for its 
operation and is given control until the task is completed. Then the object returns control to the 
kernel, which selects the next object to be executed. 
The kernel also has ultimate responsibility for the network’s capability lists. Each site has both 
a capability manager that maintains the capability list for its objects, and a directory, which lists the 
location for all capabilities in the system. This directory guides local requests for capabilities to 
the sites on which they are located. 
For example, if a process requests access to a region in memory, the capability manager first 
determines whether the requesting process has been previously granted rights. 
 
Figure 6.12 
 
Figure 6.12 shows a Linux operating system, the kernel level is logically positioned between the 
computer hardware and the shell. User requests for hardware interaction move from the application 
to the shell, to the kernel, and then to the hardware control level. 
If so, then it can proceed. If not, it processes the request for access rights. When the requester has 
access rights, the capability manager grants the requester access to the named object, in this case, 
the region in memory. If the named object is at a remote site, the local capability manager directs 
the requester, using a new address computation and message, to the remote capability manager. 
The kernel is also responsible for process synchronization mechanisms and communication support. 
Typically, synchronization is implemented as some form of shared variable, such as the WAIT 
and SIGNAL codes discussed in Chapter 6. Communication among distributed objects can be in the 
form of shared data objects, message objects, or control interactions. Most systems provide 
different communication primitives to their objects, which are either synchronous (the sender and 
receiver are linked and ready to send and receive;) or asynchronous (there is some shareable 
area such as a mailbox, queue, or stack to which the communicated information is sent). In some 
cases, the receiver periodically checks to see if anyone has sent anything. In other cases, the 
communicated information arrives at the receiver’s workstation without any effort on the part of 
the receiver, it just waits. There can also be a combination of these. An example of this 
communication model might have a mechanism that signals the receiver whenever communication 
arrives at the sharing area, so that the information can be fetched whenever it is convenient. The 
advantage of this system is that it eliminates unnecessary checking when no messages are waiting.