1.2.3 The Device Management 
The Device Manager is responsible for connecting with every device that is available on the 
system, and for choosing the most efficient way to allocate each of these printers, ports, disk 
drives, and more, based on the device scheduling policies selected by the designers of the 
operating system. 
Good device management requires that this part of the operating system uniquely identify each 
device, start its operation when appropriate, monitor its progress, and, finally, deallocate the 
device to make the operating system available to the next waiting process. 

1.2.4 File Management 
The File Manager keeps track of every file in the system, including data files, program files, 
utilities, compilers, applications, and so on. By following the access policies determined by the 
system designers, the File Manager enforces restrictions on who has access to which files. The 
File Manager also controls the range of actions that each user is allowed to perform on the files 
after they access them. For example, one user might have read-only access to a critical database, 
while the systems administrator might hold read-and-write access with the authority to create 
and delete files in the same database. 

Access control is a key part of good file management and 
is tightly coupled with system security software. When the File Manager allocates space on a 
secondary storage device, such as a hard drive, flash drive, archival device, and so on, it must do 
so knowing the technical requirements of that device. For example, if it needs to store an archival 
copy of a large file, it needs to know if the device stores it more efficiently as one large block or 
in several smaller pieces that are linked through an index. This information is also necessary for 
the file to be correctly retrieved later. Later, if this large file must be modified after it has been 
stored, the File Manager must be capable of making those modifications as accurately and 
efficiently as possible.