ii. Firewalls 
 
Network assaults can include compromised Web servers, email servers, circumvented 
firewalls, and FTP sites accessed by unauthorized users. A firewall is hardware and/or software 
designed to protect a system by disguising its IP address from outsiders who do not have 
authorization to access it or ask for information about it. A firewall sits between the Internet 
and the network and blocks curious inquiries and potentially dangerous intrusions from 
outside the system. 
 
The typical tasks of the firewall are to: 
 
• log activities that access the Internet. 
• maintain access control based on the senders’ or receivers’ IP addresses. 
• maintain access control based on the services that are requested. 
• hide the internal network from unauthorized users requesting network information. 
• verify that virus protection is installed and being enforced. 
• perform authentication based on the source of a request from the Internet.

iii. Authentication Protocols 
 
Network authentication software performs verification that the individual who is trying to access a 
protected system is authorized to do so. One popular authentication tool was Kerberos, a network 
authentication protocol developed as part of the Athena Project at Massachusetts Institute of 
Technology (MIT) to answer the need for password encryption to improve network security. 
Kerberos was designed to provide strong authentication for client/server applications and was 
named after the three-headed dog of Greek mythology that guarded the gates of Hades. 

iv. Encryption 
 
The most extreme protection for sensitive data is encryption, putting it into a secret code. Total 
network encryption, also called communications encryption, is the most extreme form, all 
communications with the system are encrypted. The system then decrypts them for processing. To 
communicate with another system, the data is encrypted, transmitted, decrypted, and processed. 
How encryption works: 
 
A good way to learn about cryptography is to first understand the role of a public key and a private 
key. The private key is a pair of two prime numbers (usually with 75 or more digits each) chosen by 
the person who wants to receive a private message. The two prime numbers are multiplied together, 
forming a third number with 150 or more digits. The person who creates this private key is the only 
one who knows which two prime numbers were used to create this number, which is known as 
the public key. 