
6.2. Network Types 
It is often useful to group networks according to the physical distances they cover. Networks are 
generally divided into local area networks, metropolitan area networks, and wide area networks. 
However, as communications technology advances, the characteristics that define each group are 
blurring. In recent years, the wireless local area network has become ubiquitous. 
 
Personal Area Network 
 
A personal area network (PAN) includes information technology that operates within a radius of 
approximately 10 meters of an individual and is centered around that one person. Also called body 
area networks (BANs), PANs include networks for wearable technology (gloves, caps, monitors, and 
so on) that use the natural connectivity of the human body to communicate. These small networks 
can usually connect to a bigger network. 
 
Local Area Network 
 
A local area network (LAN) defines a configuration that includes multiple users found within a single 
office building, warehouse, campus, or similar computing environment. Such a network is generally 
owned, used, and operated by a single organization, and allows computers to communicate directly 
through a common communication line. Typically, it is a cluster of personal computers or 
workstations located in the same general area. Although a LAN is usually confined to a well-defined 
local area, its communications are not limited to that area because the LAN can be a component of a 
larger communication network and can allow users to have easy access to other networks through a 
bridge or a gateway. 
A bridge is a device that is software operated that connects two or more local area networks that use 
the same protocols. For example, a simple bridge could be used to connect two local area networks 
using Ethernet networking technology. 
A gateway, on the other hand, is a more complex device and software that connects two or more 
local area networks or systems using different protocols. A gateway translates one network’s protocol 
into another, resolving hardware and software incompatibility. For example, the systems network 
architecture (commonly called SNA) gateway can connect a microcomputer network to a mainframe 
host. 

Figure 6.8 
  
Figure 6.8 shows a primary LAN using a bridge to link several computers, printers, a scanner, and 
another LAN together. 
 
High-speed LANs have a data rate that varies from 100 megabits per second to more than 40 gigabits 
per second. Because the sites are close to each other, bandwidths are available to support very high- 
speed transmissions for fully animated, full-color graphics and video, digital voice transmissions; and 
other high data-rate signals. The previously described topologies, star, ring, bus, tree, and hybrid 
are normally used to construct local area networks. The transmission medium used may vary 
from one topology to another. Factors to be considered when selecting a transmission medium 
are cost, data rate, reliability, number of devices that can be supported, distance between units, and 
technical limitations. 