2.3. Paged Memory Allocation 
 
Paged memory allocation is based on the concept of dividing jobs into units of equal size. 
Each unit is called a page. Some operating systems choose a page size that is the exact same 
size as a section of main memory, which is called a page frame. Likewise, the sections of a 
magnetic disk are called sectors or blocks. The paged memory allocation scheme works quite 
efficiently when the pages, sectors, and page frames are all the same size. The exact size of 
the number of bytes that can be stored in each of them is usually determined by the disk’s 
size. Therefore, one sector will hold one page of job instructions (or data) and will fit into a 
single page frame of memory; but because this is the smallest addressable chunk of disk 
storage, it is not subdivided, even for very tiny jobs. 
Before executing a program, a basic Memory Manager prepares it by 
 
1. determining the number of pages in the program, 
2. locating enough empty page frames in main memory, 
3. Loading all the program’s pages into those frames. 
 
When the program is initially prepared for loading, its pages are in logical sequence, the first 
pagescontain the first instructions of the program, and the last page has the last instructions. We 
refer to the program’s instructions as “bytes” or “words.” 
The loading process is different from the schemes because the pages do not have to be 
contiguous, loaded in adjacent memory blocks. In fact, each page can be stored in any 
available page frame anywhere in main memory. 
The primary advantage of storing programs in non-contiguous page frames is that main 
memory is used more efficiently, because an empty page frame can be used by any page of 
any job. In addition,the compaction scheme used for relocatable partitions is eliminated 
because there is no external fragmentation between page frames. 

However, with every new solution comes a new problem. Because a job’s pages can be 
located anywhere in main memory, the Memory Manager now needs a mechanism to keep 
track of them, and this means enlarging the size, complexity, and overhead of the operating 
system software. 

The simplified example in Figure 2.5 shows how the Memory Manager keeps track of a 
program that is four pages long. To simplify the arithmetic, we have arbitrarily set the page 
size at 100 bytes. Job 1 is350 bytes long and is ready for execution. The Page Map Table for 
the first job is shown laterin Table 3.2. 
 
Notice in Figure 2.5 that the last page frame (Page Frame 11) is not fully utilized because 
Page 3 is less than 100 bytes, the last page uses only 50 of the 100 bytes available. In fact, 
very few jobs perfectly fill all the pages, so internal fragmentation is still a problem, but only 
in the job’s last page frame. 
 
Figure 2.5 has seven free page frames; therefore, the operating system can accommodate 
an incoming job of up to 700 bytes because it can be stored in the seven empty page frames. 
But a job that is larger than 700 bytes cannot be accommodated until Job 1 ends its 
execution and releases the four-page frames it occupies. Any job larger than 1100 bytes will 
never fit into the memory of this tiny system. Therefore, although paged memory allocation 
offers the advantage of non- contiguous storage, it still requires that the entire job be stored 
in memory during its execution. 