Chapter Six: Network and Security 

When computer resources are connected by data communication components, they form a network 
to support the many functions of the organization. Networks provide an essential infrastructure for 
the members of an information-based society to process, manipulate, and distribute data and 
information to each other. This chapter introduces the terminology and basic concepts of networks. 
 
6.1. Network Topologies 
Sites in any networked system can be physically or logically connected to one another in a certain 
topology, the geometric arrangement of connections (cables, wireless, or both) that link the nodes. 
The most common geometric arrangements are star, ring, bus, tree, and hybrid. In each topology, 
there are trade-offs among the need for fast communication among all sites, the tolerance of failure 
at a site or communication link, the cost of long communication lines, and the difficulty of 
connecting one site to many other sites. It is important to note that the physical topology of a network 
may not reflect its logical topology. For example, a network that is wired in a star configuration can 
be logically arranged to operate as if it is a ring. That is, it can be made to manipulate a token in a 
ring-like fashion even though its cables are arranged in a star topology. To keep our explanations 
in this chapter as simple as possible, whenever we discuss topologies, we assume that the logical 
structure of the network is identical to the physical structure. 
 
For the network designer, there are many alternatives available, all of which will probably solve the 
customers’ requirements. When deciding which configuration to use, designers should keep in mind 
four criteria: 

➢ Basic cost - the expense required to link the various sites in the system. 
➢ Communications cost - the time required to send a message from one site to another. 
➢ Reliability - the assurance that many sites can still communicate with each other even if a 
system link or site fails. 
➢ User environment - the critical parameters that the network must meet to be a successful 
business investment. 
 
It is quite possible that there are several possible solutions for each customer. The best choice would 
be needed to consider all four criteria. For example, an international data retrieval company 
might consider the fastest communications and the most flexible hardware configuration to be a cost-
effective investment. But a neighborhood charity might put the most emphasis on having a low- cost 
networking solution. Over-engineering the neighborhood system could be just as big a mistake as 
under-engineering the international customer’s network. The key to choosing the best design is to 
understand the available technology, as well as the customer’s business requirements and budget. 
