The business analyst has the primary responsibility for creating or tailoring the information 
management approach for their project. The project manager also participates in this effort as 
they have responsibility for managing changes to the project scope and are accountable for 
delivering the resulting solution. Ideally, the change management approach for the project 
should also govern any requirements or design changes. 
 
Several business analysis stakeholders are impacted by the contents of the information 
management approach.
 
•Domain SMEs 
•Regulators 
•The sponsor 

In addition to defining the information management approach, the business analysis team needs 
to take a closer look at how they plan to measure and control business analysis work 
performance across the project life cycle. That is defined in the business analysis performance 
assessment. Let’s move on to step through how business analysis performance improvements 
should be planned for on a project. 

2.7 Identify Business Analysis Performance Improvements 
There is no reason to do business analysis planning if the team isn’t going to use those plans 
and approaches to measure and control business analysis performance. The primary reason for 
building the previous four business approaches in the Business Analysis Planning and 
Monitoring knowledge area is to be able to perform, monitor, and report on the business 
analysis work that is being done. This occurs at two levels: for the overall project and for each 
project phase. Monitoring and measuring business analysis performance against the business 
analysis approaches and the project plan ensures that the project’s business analysis effort 
produces the desired outcomes and that the business analysis work is performed efficiently. 
 
The business analysis team is responsible for determining the metrics used to measure business 
analysis work on the project. Indicators are specific numerical measurements that represent a 
measure for a specific set of business analysis activities or deliverables. Figure 2.6 summarizes 
the task. 
 
Two key inputs are used in managing business analysis performance for a project. The 
following are the specific task inputs used when managing business analysis performance on a 
project: 
 
Business Analysis Approach Business analysis performance is traditionally measured in the 
same way you look at project performance. The business analysis approach is used to 
measure actual progress against the planned deliverables, activities, tasks, and estimates.  
 
Performance Objectives (external) Many organizations define the high-level performance 
outcomes that they want to achieve as a result of the projects or initiatives. These external 
performance outcomes need to be factored in to the business analysis performance 
improvements. 
 
Figure 2.6 Task summary: Identify business analysis performance improvements. 
 
In addition to inputs, there is an additional guideline used as an input to this task. Interestingly 
enough, many of these inputs, guidelines, and tools are metrics, standards, or expectations for 
performing business analysis work on a project. Here is the guideline: 
 
 