Change is an interesting beast. Remember when your mother told you that hindsight is always 
20/20? Well, your mother was right. Business analysts are experts at recognizing changing 
circumstances as the project life cycle moves forward. They recognize that their level of 
knowledge about the solution and its implementation improves over time. However, their 
ability to respond quickly and easily to changes in the requirements decreases as the project’s 
delivery date draws near. Managing changing requirements is an integral part of what business 
analysts do. Figure 4.1 illustrates this strange and wonderful relationship between what 
business analysts know about projects and how quickly and easily they can respond to changes 
over time. 

Figure 4.1  
 
Figure 4.1 Responding to changing requirements 
 
The tasks in this knowledge area consist primarily of actions taken for a project’s business, 
stakeholder, or solution requirements and designs. These tasks provide the business analysis 
team and the project with requirements-related outputs that are then used in various ways 
downstream. The Requirements Life Cycle Management knowledge area is addressed in 
Chapter 5 of the BABOK® Guide. 

The Requirements Life Cycle Management knowledge area also addresses monitoring the 
effects of changing project requirements across the project life cycle. The business analysis 
team assesses the effectiveness of the actual solution relative to the organization’s business 
goals and objectives. This ensures that the project’s business analysis tracks its organizational 
alignment and understanding, making it available for use on future projects. How is this 
accomplished? Let’s take a look at the five tasks involved. 
 
4.2 The Business Analyst’s Task List 
The business analyst has five tasks to perform in the Requirements Life Cycle Management 
knowledge area. We will look at each of these tasks in greater detail later in this chapter. The 
task list from the BABOK® Guide includes the following: 

 Managing requirements traceability  
 Maintaining requirements and designs for reuse  
 Prioritizing the requirements and designs  
 Assessing requirements changes  
 Approving and agreeing on requirements and designs 

These tasks focus on making sure that the project stakeholders have a common and consistent 
understanding of the requirements, designs, and solution that the requirements are defining. 
The business analyst is also responsible for managing the requirements as they change across 
the project life cycle. We will step through each of these tasks in greater detail later in this 
chapter. 