As the project business analyst, you have the primary responsibility for informally 
documenting your elicited project requirements information. The format that you select 
depends on the information you are documenting. You may use text, graphical models, or a 
combination of the two. The technique or techniques you selected to elicit requirements may 
also play a role in how the elicitation results are informally collected. Other business analysis 
stakeholders might be involved with providing the business analyst with the requirements 
information that they are seeking. 
Let’s take a look at the next step in effective requirements elicitation—confirming your 
elicitation results. 

Confirm Elicitation Results 
The third task in the Elicitation and Collaboration knowledge area is confirming the results of 
your elicitation activities. Elicited business analysis information is checked for accuracy and 
consistency. Any identified errors, omissions, conflicts, or ambiguity are resolved prior to 
using the elicited information. Often, we find that additional elicitation and stakeholder 
collaboration is required to resolve these discrepancies. This important step ensures that you 
clearly understand the stakeholder intentions and any related issues that might impact your 
requirements and your project. You must make sure that you involve all stakeholders who 
participated in the elicitation event in this confirmation step. 
According to the BABOK® Guide, confirming elicitation results is a less rigorous and less 
formal review than what takes place during analysis. 
Figure 5.4 summarizes the inputs, guidelines, tools, outputs, techniques, and associated tasks 
used to confirm the elicitation results. 

One key input is required to confirm the elicitation results—the elicitation results themselves. 
Additional guidelines and tools can also be used. Let’s take a look at this key input in more 
detail: 

Elicitation Results Elicitation results are the stated and unconfirmed requirements that 
represent the business analyst’s documented understanding of the stakeholder’s intentions. 
They were obtained using one or more elicitation techniques. This information has yet to be 
reviewed with the involved stakeholders to make sure everything is correct and complete. This 
information may also include risks, assumptions, and constraints to be confirmed and addressed 
by the business analyst 

Table 5.8 summarizes the inputs, guidelines, and tools used by this task. 
Inputs: Confirm elicitation results. 