Supporting Materials These materials are used to prepare the business analysis team and the 
stakeholders prior to an elicitation activity and may be reviewed prior to the event. Supporting 
materials also include information, tools, or equipment used as part of the elicitation itself. 
Table 5.5 summarizes the inputs, guidelines and tools to this elicitation task and lists the source 
of each input (if applicable). 
 
There are several elements that you should perform when eliciting project requirements 
information across the project life cycle, including the following: 

 Guiding the elicitation activity 
 Capturing elicitation outcomes 

Let’s look at each element in greater detail: 
Guide Elicitation Activity Experienced business analysts follow their elicitation plan to 
navigate the actual elicitation activity. This approach keeps things on track by focusing on 
gathering business analysis information at the required level of detail. Remember that things 
can change once elicitation is underway; being flexible and adaptable relative to your elicitation 
plan is also an essential skill. Keep an eye out for when you have gathered enough information. 
 
Capture Elicitation Outcomes Eliciting requirements is an iterative and incremental activity. 
Elicitation outcomes are captured and integrated into the planned outcomes and what the 
business analysis team already knows. Recording business analysis information during 
elicitation is essential for later reference, integration, and use. 
The BABOK® Guide contains numerous elicitation techniques that you should be able to use 
as needed. Each technique is an excellent way to elicit requirements. The technique you choose 
should be the best fit for the situation that you find yourself in. For instance, scheduling 
telephone interviews with 100 individual users is not time effective. Building a 
survey/questionnaire to send to them combined with a requirements workshop for a selected 
subset of senior or key users may be a better approach to gathering information. 
There are several techniques that you may choose to apply when prioritizing your project 
requirements. Two techniques that we recommend for eliciting requirements are focus groups 
and prototypes. Let’s take a look at these recommended techniques in greater detail. 

Recommended Technique: Focus Groups 

Focus groups provide you with an interactive group environment to elicit ideas and attitudes 
from selected stakeholders about a product, service, or opportunity. The work done in a focus 
group may be similar to a brainstorming session, but a focus group is a more structured event. 
Focus groups are a form of qualitative research in which your participants are prequalified to 
address a set of questions about a particular topic. 
Focus group preparation requires you to select and recruit the right participants for the session. 
The BABOK® Guide recommends a focus group size of 6 to 12 attendees. A moderator and a 
recorder for the session should also be assigned ahead of time. It is essential that your focus 
group be guided by a trained moderator. In many organizations, the trained moderator is the 
business analyst. The moderator creates a discussion guide defining the goals and objectives 
of the session and five or six questions to be discussed. The focus group location and any 
necessary technical services also need to be set up in advance. 