We’ll take a quick look at each of these question types, but first let’s see how one seasoned 
business analyst uses them in interviews. 

Research Questions These are general questions inviting your stakeholders to provide you 
with information about their concerns, interests, and needs relative to the solution scope. 
Research questions allow a skilled business analyst to assess the stakeholder needs. People are 
comfortable answering research questions when the questions are not limited or specific and 
the answers are not controlled in any way. An example of a research question might be “What 
constitutes success for this project?” 
Detailed Questions Detailed questions focus on gathering specific information within the 
predefined solution scope. These questions are typically the step after research questions and 
help the business analyst focus on more specific information that is needed. To be thorough, 
detailed questions should be framed around the five Ws: who, what, where, when, and why. 
As your questions become more specific, it is important to discourage one-word answers, such 
as yes and no. This can often be achieved in the phrasing of each question. An example of a 
detailed question is, “Who provides you with this information?” 
Directive Questions Directive questions are used primarily by business analysts in group 
settings where there are contradictions in what the business analyst has been told. Directive 
questions direct the other parties to an area where agreement needs to be reached and 
sometimes away from an area that is contentious. For project requirements information, these 
questions can be used to get consensus on specific features and functionality and to encourage 
stakeholder decision making. One example of a directive question might be, “What is the 
relative priority of this key feature?” 
Meta Questions Meta questions are powerful tools. They allow you to clarify and enhance 
what has just been said. Basically, meta questions are questions about questions. This 
communications strategy allows the business analyst to promote open communication in a 
nonthreatening way. Meta questions clarify and summarize what the business analyst has been 
told. They are an active listening technique that proves that the business analyst really listened 

to what a particular stakeholder said during requirements elicitation. An example of a meta 
question is, “Do you mind if I ask you about . . . ?” 
Both research and detailed questions can be open-ended or closed-ended questions. Be sure 
you can distinguish between the two types of questions, as this is a topic that could appear on 
your certification exam. 
Using a good blend of question types at all levels of detail allows you to elicit more complete 
and correct requirements information for your projects. Saving your questions and reusing them 
is another best practice that you should apply on all of your projects. Once you have well-
written, general questions, it is easy to use them on another project. Building requirements 
elicitation questionnaires or surveys based on your proven questions often raises the quality 
and quantity of business analysis information received. It also saves you from reinventing the 
wheel. 