Create a Business Analysis Approach 
 
Now let’s get to the task at hand, which is planning the business analysis approach. Every task 
has inputs, outputs, elements, guidelines, tools, and techniques. This task is no exception. Let’s 
start with the inputs. Inputs are either informational in nature or outputs produced by other 
business analysis tasks. Inputs are acted on by the task elements and techniques, producing one 
or more task outputs. Let’s take a look at the task input used when planning a business analysis 
approach: 

Needs The business analysis approach is impacted by the business need or need for change that 
is driving the project. This makes sense. Both the project approach and the business analysis 
approach will be impacted by the problem or opportunity it is addressing. The needs for the 
project are defined during Strategy Analysis. 
 
Business Analysis Performance Assessment The business analysis performance assessment 
contains results from business analysis activities on previous projects for you to review and 
incorporate into your current approach to getting things done. 
 
Business Policies Business policies define the limits within which business decisions must be 
made and how work will be completed. These policies also frame and constrain the business 
analysis approach that you select. 
Expert Judgment Expert judgment is used to evaluate and build the optimal business analysis 
approach for your project. Your team will rely on individuals or groups with specialized 
knowledge or skills in business analysis and other aspects of the domain to assist in defining 
the approach. 
 
Methodologies and Frameworks Methodologies and frameworks define and govern business 
analysis work on a project. The business analysis approach may be defined by a particular 
methodology, an organizational framework, or a combination of the two. Don’t forget to look 
at historical information from previous projects, such as risks, performance measures, 
schedules, and other data. When you discover a business analysis asset treasure trove at one of 
your clients, it means you don’t have to reinvent the wheel. 
 
Stakeholder Engagement Approach Effective business analysts make sure that they 
understand their stakeholders. Stakeholder concerns and interests can impact the pieces and 
parts of your business analysis approach. 
 
Table 2.2 summarizes the inputs, guidelines, and tools needed to plan the business analysis 
approach for a project and also lists the task and knowledge area that was the source of the 
input (if applicable).