Recommended Technique: Prioritization 

The prioritization technique is a catchall for several approaches to prioritizing requirements. 
The priorities may be based on risk, value, implementation difficulty, or other criteria. The four 
approaches are grouping, ranking, time boxing/budgeting, and negotiation. The selection of 
approach is up to the business analyst team and may change to fit the current situation and the 
needs of the stakeholders. Business analysts may find themselves using one or more approaches 
to prioritize their project requirements. Let’s step through each approach in more detail. 
Grouping This common prioritization approach classifies requirements or business analysis 
information according to predefined categories, such as high, medium, and low, or the Must, 
Should, Could, and Won’t categories of MoSCoW analysis. Grouping helps you to reach a 
common understanding with your stakeholders on the importance they place on the delivery of 
each requirement. Requirements might move between prioritization groups as you iteratively 
apply the technique and discuss your options with key stakeholders. 
Ranking Ranking orders the requirements or business analysis information from what is most 
important to what is least important. Ranking can be explicitly sequenced to create a product 
backlog of requirements in an ordered list. One recommendation is to rank your requirements 
so that 25 percent of those requirements are Must, 25 percent of the requirements are Should, 
25 percent are Could, and the remaining 25 percent are Won’t. If these percentages don’t work 
for you, you can select numbers that fit your project and your set of requirements to prioritize. 
Time Boxing/Budgeting Time boxing/budgeting prioritizes requirements for implementation 
based on the allocation of a fixed resource, usually either time (time boxing) or money 
(budgeting). This technique is most effective when it is framed by the defined solution scope 
for the project. 

Negotiation This approach requires establishing consensus among the involved stakeholders 
regarding the prioritized requirements. Conflict management and negotiation skills can be used 
to encourage the group to reach consensus. 
When using any of these approaches to prioritize requirements, remember that one or more 
requirements might be redefined, deleted, or added to the set. Over time, the prioritized list of 
requirements might change based on new information and insight. 