Knowledge Area: Solution Evaluation  
 
Solution Evaluation focuses on assessing and validating proposed, in progress, and 
implemented solutions before, during, and after the project life cycle. A business analyst’s 
attention is on the value that the solution will deliver to the enterprise, including the constraints 
that may impact value. While many tasks in this knowledge area take place later in the project 
life cycle, some solution-focused activities may occur quite early. The business analyst’s task 
list for this knowledge area consists of the following: 
 
• Defining solution performance measures  
• Collecting and analyzing solution performance data 
• Assessing solution limitations  
• Assessing enterprise limitations  
• Recommending actions to increase solution value 
 
Exploring Requirements  
 
Projects are successful when stakeholders, including business analysts, clearly state and agree 
upon desired accomplishments. For most projects, this statement consists of defining the high-
level scope of the project along with its more detailed project requirements. The general 
definition of a requirement is something wanted or needed. Business analysts in many 
organizations spend a lot of time developing requirements. This is a good thing. Defining and 
documenting requirements allow a business analyst to quantify and document the needs, wants, 
and expectations of project stakeholders.  
 
The BABOK® Guide uses the term requirement to cover many aspects of the business and its 
needs. Their broad view of requirements addresses both the current state of the business and 
its desired future state. Requirements may focus on the business, the users, or the systems and 
subsystems that already exist or are being considered. Requirements range from high-level 
enterprise capabilities to organizational structure and roles to processes and policies. 
Information systems fall into the requirements realm, as do business rules. Requirements 
analysis activities are also quite broad in nature. There is no prescription for the correct level 
of detail in your project requirements other than what is sufficient for understanding and 
subsequent action. 