Fishbone Diagram A fishbone diagram allows the business analyst to show the causes of a 
problem or an effect. Fishbone diagrams are also called Ishikawa or cause-and-effect diagrams. 
This diagram allows the business analyst to see all possible causes of a result in a structured 
way and to make sure that everyone understands the problem or cause that is being addressed. 
The business analyst and key stakeholders will brainstorm the categories and the possible 
causes in each category. Typical categories include things like people, methods, machines, 
materials, measurements, and environment. After the diagram is built, the business analyst will 
analyze the results and (hopefully) determine the actual cause of what is taking place. This 
fishbone example looks at the possible causes for a specific effect: decreased wine sales 
revenue. The possible causes are diagrammed and broken down across four areas: people and 
skills, systems, distributors, and surroundings. A fishbone diagram, like the one shown in 
Figure 3.2, offers the team the opportunity to analyze and discuss what they think is leading to 
this decrease in revenue.

Figure 3.2 A fishbone diagram offers the opportunity to analyze and discuss. 
 
Five Whys  
 
The five whys is a questioning technique that asks, “Why?” repeatedly in order to get to the 
root cause of a problem. This technique can be used alone or used with the fishbone diagram 
technique. This is a simple and effective facilitation tool. Many business analysts customize 
their use of this tool by asking, “How?” instead of “Why?” or by alternating between the two 
terms. Often the root cause is identified before the five questions are asked. Be careful when 
you use this technique. We were in a meeting once where the facilitator really annoyed the 
senior user by repeatedly asking, “Why?” in order to determine whether automating an existing 
process would improve customer service. The senior user ended up throwing a powdered-sugar 
doughnut at the facilitator, making a big white spot right on the front of the facilitator’s black 
suit jacket. 