2.5 Plan Business Analysis Governance 
Business analysis governance is the road map for what decisions need to be made, when the 
decisions need to be made, and who is responsible for actually making those decisions. The 
business analysis team typically plans for business analysis governance. The governance 
process also directs the change control process, defining how changes will be analyzed, 
approved, documented, and communicated. 
 
Planning for business analysis governance is not much different from what the project manager 
does to create a decision-making architecture for the project; it is simply focused on business 
analysis work and deliverables. The business analyst identifies how business analysis work will 
be approached and prioritized, decides who has the authority to make certain types of decisions, 
and figures out how to deal with the inevitable changes that will come their way. If all goes 
well, the governance plan enables the business analysis team to work well with the project 
manager and make the right business analysis decisions at the right time. 
Figure 2.4 summarizes the inputs, outputs, techniques, and associated tasks for planning 
business analysis governance in accordance with the BABOK® Guide. 
 
Figure 2.4 Task summary: Plan business analysis governance. 
 
Several key inputs for planning business analysis governance are guidelines, tools, or outputs 
produced by other business analysis tasks, such as the business analysis approach and the 
stakeholder engagement approach. These two deliverables govern how the governance 
planning is done and who is involved with the work to be performed. Let’s take a closer look 
at the two task inputs used for planning business analysis governance: 
 
Business Analysis Approach The business analysis approach governs planning activities, as 
it defines the planning process and the development life cycle. It is essential that you keep your 
business analysis governance process consistent with the overall business analysis approach 
for your efforts. 
 
Stakeholder Engagement Approach Understanding the preferences of key business analysis 
stakeholders will shape the resulting business analysis governance process to some degree. 
Stakeholder roles and levels of involvement need to be understood and incorporated into your 
business analysis governance process.