Organizational Structure and Culture When assessing the future state, remember to do a 
cultural assessment of the organization relative to the changes in formal and informal working 
relationships that may occur. Communications channels and working relationships are 
influenced by the organization’s structure and culture and should be accounted for as part of 
analyzing both the current and future states of the enterprise during strategy analysis 
 
Capabilities and Processes Once you have a handle on the current capabilities, it’s time to 
consider the new capabilities that may be needed to meet the business need. The business 
analyst is responsible for modelling and describing these new capabilities. One common way 
to do this is called gap analysis: defining what it will take to eliminate or minimize the gap 
between the current capabilities and the desired future state 
 
Technology and Infrastructure The question you must answer is, “Does the organization 
have the current business and technology capabilities to meet the business need?” You will 
look at specific parts of the current technology and infrastructure that relate to the business 
need. Existing technology may impose technological constraints on solution design. If you miss 
something, your view of the organization’s current technical capabilities may be incorrect and 
incomplete. That will require you to spend extra time doing the research to discover what you 
need to know. 
 
Policies Day-to-day decision making in an enterprise is defined by policies at different 
organizational levels. These policies might need to change as part of the desired future state. 
Policies also have a bad habit of constraining the solution space for the future state, so stay 
alert for these possible issues and roadblocks. 
 
Business Architecture Business architecture is the design, structure, and behavior of every 
aspect of the enterprise. The future state of an enterprise does not exist in a vacuum; all these 
elements work together to meet (or obstruct) business goals and objectives. This view of how 
things will work together in the future helps business analysts align strategic objectives with 
tactical demands and possible changes downstream 
 
Internal Assets Assets are tangible and intangible parts of the future state description. The 
future state may require new assets or more capabilities from existing assets 
 
Identify Assumptions You will have to make assumptions to define new capabilities for the 
future state. Assumptions are things that are believed to be true regarding meeting the business 
need. Make sure that you clearly understand any assumptions associated with the new 
capabilities. Identify and document each assumption, just in case you discover later that one or 
more of them are actually false 