Additional Techniques to Consider 

Backlog Management Ranked requirements are often stored in a product backlog consisting 
of prioritized requirements in an ordered list. This backlog can be used to compare 
requirements to be prioritized. 
Business Cases The business goals and objectives found in the business case are used to 
determine the importance of requirements during the prioritization process. 
Decision Analysis You can use this technique to examine and model the consequences of 
different decisions before actually making a well-informed decision. When prioritizing project 
requirements, business analysts can use decision analysis to identify and assess high-value 
requirements. 
Estimation Cost estimates are often used as the basis for requirements prioritization. This can 
occur early in the prioritization process or later when solution implementation specifics are 
being considered. 
Financial Analysis These techniques can be used to assess the financial value of a set of 
requirements and to look at how implementation timing can impact that value. 
Interviews Business analysts use interviews to understand how individual stakeholders or 
small stakeholder groups want to prioritize requirements. 
Item Tracking Item tracking allows for tracking of any issues raised by stakeholders during 
prioritization activities. 
Risk Analysis and Management Risky requirements often need to be investigated further to 
determine what should be done with them. Some organizations prefer to implement risky 
requirements early on to minimize the costs of failure, while others prefer to defer risky 
requirements until later in the life cycle in order to decide what to do with them. 
Workshops Business analysts use workshops to understand the basis for how larger 
stakeholder groups want to prioritize requirements. 
Once you have selected and applied one or more techniques as part of your requirements 
prioritization efforts, you are ready to continue with some of the other analysis tasks at hand. 
We will discuss those tasks shortly. 

Table 4.8 Outputs: Prioritize requirements.
 
A number of stakeholders are involved with prioritizing stakeholder and solution requirements. 
Remember that the primary responsibility for prioritizing requirements is shared between the 
business analyst and the key stakeholders who are involved as part of the requirements 
prioritization process. 
Several key business analysis stakeholders should also be involved in prioritizing requirements. 
The project manager uses your prioritized requirements during the implementation planning 
efforts. Other stakeholders participating in requirements prioritization include the following: 

 Customer  
 Domain SME 
 End user Implementation SME  
 Regulator 
 Sponsor 