3.5 Define Change Strategy 
 
Defining the change strategy requires developing and assessing alternative approaches to the 
desired change before selecting the most appropriate approach. Developing the change strategy 
produces two key business analysis deliverables: the change strategy and the solution scope. 
The current state and future state definitions are critical to the success of this task as they 
provide valuable context for the change that is being driven by the business need. 
 
Basically, the change strategy is used to justify the costs of doing a project in terms of the value 
the project adds to the business and the associated business benefits. A change strategy must 
look at both sides of the equation, comparing both the costs and benefits of a proposed solution. 
The expected business benefits and value of the solution should be evaluated relative to 
achieving business objectives and meeting the business need. 
 
Many templates and documents are used for a change strategy. We have worked in 
organizations where the business case justifying our next project contained very much the same 
information as the change strategy contains here. The template you use for your change strategy 
is up to you. Just be sure that the information it contains is adequate to support a go/no-go 
decision about the project that implements the proposed solution defined in the business 
requirements. At a minimum, the change strategy should address the following areas 

 Context of the change 
 Alternative change strategies 
 Justification for why a change strategy is the best approach 
 Investment and resources required to achieve the future state 
 Value of the change after the solution is delivered 
 Key stakeholders involved in the change 
 Transition states required to achieve the future state 
 
After the change strategy is completed and approved for a project, it is time for the detailed 
requirements development and other project work activities to begin. Many times, the project 
manager will use the change strategy as an input for the project charter. 
 
According to the BABOK® Guide, the solution scope defines “the set of capabilities a solution 
must deliver in order to meet the business need.” It is derived from the business need, the 
desired outcome (business benefits), and the required capabilities. The solution scope will be 
impacted by the solution approach that is selected. 
 
Solution scope focuses on the key business stakeholders of a project. This is where the business 
analyst defines a recommended solution in enough detail for these stakeholders to understand 
the new business capabilities the solution will provide. This definition includes all major 
features, functions, and external interactions of the solution. 
 
Figure 3.6 summarizes the inputs, outputs, techniques, and associated tasks for defining the 
change strategy and solution scope. 

Figure 3.6 Task summary: Define change strategy. 
 
Table 3.9 summarizes the inputs to this task and also lists the particular task that was the source 
of the input (if applicable) 
 