Business analysts step through three essential elements as they assess a proposed change to 
requirements or designs. These three elements are as follows: 

 Determine the change assessment formality.  
 Perform an impact analysis.  
 Provide impact resolution for the proposed change.  

Here we step through each of these elements in more detail: 
Determining Change Assessment Formality Methods for assessing and deciding upon 
requirements changes range from the very informal to formal requests complete with 
committees to consider whether the requests are worthwhile. Determining the level of formality 
depends upon the information available, the importance of the change, and the business 
analysis governance approach defining change control for requirements and designs. 
Predictive approaches to projects often use formal methods to assess and determine the merits 
of requirement and design changes. Changes in projects using predictive approaches to 
planning can cause major rework of tasks and activities that were previously completed. In 
contrast, adaptive approaches to project planning often require less change assessment 
formality because of their iterative and incremental approach to getting work done. 
Performing an Impact Analysis Impact analysis is done to assess or evaluate the impacts of a 
proposed change to requirements or designs. Traceability allows the business analyst to look 
at the impact of the change relative to related requirements and solution components. The 
impacts of changing existing requirements should be assessed across the five areas found in 

Table 4.10.  
Table 4.10 Areas of impact for changing requirements 

Providing Impact Resolution Business analysts follow the methods defined in the governance 
approach when making decisions about proposed changes on their projects. Based upon the 
approach, key stakeholders may be authorized to approve, deny, or defer a proposed change. 
Typically, the results of the impact analysis are documented and communicated to all 
stakeholders. 