Capabilities and Processes When defining the current state, be sure to look at the activities 
the enterprise performs. Core capabilities or processes describe the essential functions of the 
enterprise that differentiate it from other enterprises. The current state description should define 
the current capabilities and processes of an organization relative to a business need. This 
description looks at the organization’s business processes, software, hardware, people, 
operations, and current projects. Activities and processes are measured by performance 
indicators that will help business analysts assess the benefits associated with a proposed 
change. 
 
Business analysts can take a capability-centric view of the enterprise in their current state 
description. This perspective looks at innovative ways to combine existing capabilities and 
produce new outcomes. The capabilities being assessed are organized in functional hierarchies 
that relate them to other capabilities. On the flip side, business analysts may choose to take a 
process-centric view of the enterprise, looking for ways to improve the performance of existing 
activities. Processes are typically organized in a different way than capabilities, flowing in an 
end-to-end fashion across the enterprise. 
 
Technology and Infrastructure Technology is composed of information systems that support 
people as they do their work, communicate with others, and make decisions. Infrastructure is 
part of the enterprise environment, consisting of physical components and capabilities, such as 
computer hardware or operating a manufacturing plant.
  
Policies Day-to-day decision making in an enterprise is defined by policies at different 
organizational levels. Any policies that may have an impact on the change being proposed need 
to be identified and understood. 
 
Business Architecture The current state of an enterprise relative to a business need does not 
exist in a vacuum. Be sure to consider the business architecture when thinking about making a 
change. Business architecture is the design, structure, and behavior of every aspect of the 
enterprise. This view of how things are currently working helps the business analyst align 
strategic objectives with tactical demands and possible changes downstream. Internal Assets 
Assets are the tangible and intangible parts of the current state description. They include 
financial resources, patents, reputation, and brand names. 