Solution Requirements Solution requirements are the most detailed type of requirements 
found in the BABOK® Guide. They describe the solution characteristics that meet the higher-
level business and stakeholder requirements. Typically, a business analyst divides solution 
requirements into two specific types: functional requirements and nonfunctional requirements. 
A business analyst develops and defines solution requirements as part of the tasks found in the 
Requirements Analysis knowledge area. 
 
Functional Requirements Functional requirements define the capabilities that a product or 
solution must provide to its users. They are a subset of the solution requirements that the 
business analyst develops for the project. 
 
Nonfunctional Requirements Nonfunctional requirements describe quality attributes, design 
and implementation constraints, and external interfaces that the product must have. They are a 
subset of the solution requirements that the business analyst develops for the project, and they 
are typically paired up with the functional requirements that they constrain in some way. They 
would add characteristics to the functional requirements. 
 
Transition Requirements Transition requirements define the solution capabilities required to 
transition from the current state to the future state and are no longer needed once the transition 
is complete. Typically, the business analyst creates transition requirements later in the project 
life cycle after defining both the current and new solutions. Business analysts develop and 
define transition requirements as part of the tasks found in the Solution Evaluation knowledge 
area. 

The Requirements State Machine 
 
When you look at requirements across the project life cycle, you will notice that they change 
as the project progresses. They start as a bunch of information and are analyzed into meaningful 
requirements. The analyzed requirements are reviewed and approved by their key stakeholders. 
Following review and approval, the requirements are used as the basis for designing a solution. 
See the pattern? Requirements development fits nicely into a state machine approach as the 
requirements change over time—they transition from state-to-state based on actions that have 
been taken. Many requirements deliverables are modified based on the state that they are in at 
a particular point in time. This is particularly true for the requirements found in the BABOK® 
Guide. 
 
The requirements state machine is worth watching; it provides the business analyst with 
guidance and recommendations about what has already taken place and what might be the 
logical next step in the requirements development process. Table 1.2 summarizes the possible 
states and may be of assistance when you are navigating the BABOK® Guide. 

