Chapter 3: Controlled Start: Strategy Analysis 
 
 
Introduction 
To achieve a controlled start to a project or project phase, you must be methodical and 
consistent in its planning and definition. The Strategy Analysis knowledge area provides 
context for business analysts about the business need, which reflects the gap between the 
current business situation and a future business situation. One essential skill that the business 
analyst brings to the big-picture work is knowledge of the internal and external business 
environments surrounding the project. This is where experienced business analysts begin to 
translate an organization’s business strategy into a proposed new business solution. 
 
3.1 Strategy Analysis 
 
Now it is time to add some important context to the business analysis planning and monitoring 
tasks discussed in Chapter 2, “Controlled Start: Business Analysis Planning and Monitoring.” 
Planning, monitoring, and managing the implementation of a plan isn’t going to do the team 
much good if you don’t have clear goals and expected outcomes. These need to be aligned with 
the business need so that everyone on the team knows the goals and expected outcomes. A 
controlled project start requires a plan, but it also requires a defined target that was developed 
and based upon the way things work today. To define, design, and deliver a solution that 
addresses a business need or opportunity, the team needs to define and agree on the big picture 
of what needs to be done and why it needs to be accomplished. This high-level definition of 
the business requirements for a project is the essential first step in producing a successful 
project outcome. The BABOK® Guide defines the project’s big picture in the Strategy 
Analysis knowledge area. To focus on what is important to business analysts early in their 
analysis efforts, let’s consider the tasks of this knowledge area with the framework of the 
Business Analysis Core Concept Model (BACCM™). A business analyst needs to keep an eye 
on their work at this point in time relative to the six concepts contained in the framework: 
changes, needs, solutions, stakeholders, values, and contexts. Table 3.1 contains a list of the 
responsibilities associated with each concept. 

The Strategy Analysis knowledge area focuses on defining and documenting the business 
requirements and solution scope for a project. As part of this effort, business analysts document 
the current state of the enterprise relative to the business needs driving a possible change in 
how things are done. That leads to the business requirements, which justify why a particular 
project should be initiated to address the business need. 
  
Business requirements provide much needed context for detailed requirements activities that 
take place later. A business analyst takes a close look at the organization’s current capabilities 
relative to a business need, problem, or opportunity. Once business analysts understand what 
needs to change, they can define the desired future state of the business. They then define a 
feasible solution scope and approach for addressing that situation. 
  
The tasks in this business-focused knowledge area generate eight key business analysis 
deliverables. (You can find a complete listing in the BABOK® Guide.) We will cover these 
four significant deliverables in more detail in this chapter: 
 
•Business objectives  
•Business requirements  
•Change strategy  
•Solution scope 
 
The Strategy Analysis knowledge area is addressed in Chapter 6 of the BABOK® Guide. The 
knowledge areas in this book are sequenced within the framework of a simple life cycle—
controlled start, controlled middle, and controlled end. The Strategy Analysis knowledge area 
is addressed early in this book because big-picture tasks and business-requirements-focused 
deliverables of Strategy Analysis are key components of the controlled start to most projects. 