To assess risks, you will cover five areas within the task relative to one or more risks. The 
elements are as follows: 

 Unknowns  
 Constraints, assumptions, and dependencies  
 Negative impact to value  
 Risk tolerance 
 Recommendation 
 
Let’s step through each of these elements involved in assessing risks. 
 
Unknowns Let’s face it, business analysts will never know everything that might happen as 
the result of a change. We will never identify all of the possible risks, either. Remember to look 
at lessons learned from previous projects to see whether history provides you with additional 
risks to analyze and watch out for. Stakeholder collaboration is essential when assessing risks. 
Working together helps you understand the stakeholder’s view of the current and future states 
relative to risks that may be encountered 
 
 
Constraints, Assumptions, and Dependencies Constraints, assumptions, and dependencies 
should be analyzed for risks. Constraints are boundary conditions or limits that might impact 
an organization’s ability to select certain solution approach options. Assumptions are factors 
that you believe to be true, but you have not yet confirmed them to be true. Dependencies are 
logical relationships between the pieces and parts of your project, such as risks, requirements, 
or activities 
 
Many business analysts treat constraints and assumptions as risks in and of themselves. To do 
this, restate the constraint, assumption, or dependency as an event or condition along with the 
consequences that could occur 

Risk Tolerance One key component of risk analysis is to understand your organization’s risk 
tolerance. Organizations may be risk-averse, risk-neutral, or risk-seeking. Interestingly enough, 
an organization’s approach to risk may change over time. Risk-averse organizations want to 
reduce risks and are willing to receive fewer benefits in return for a more certain outcome. 
Risk-neutral organizations are squarely in the middle. They typically need to see that the 
expected benefits equal or outweigh the costs of the proposed solution in order to continue on 
with things. Risk-seeking organizations will accept high risks if they come with high rewards 
for success. 