3.2 The Business Analyst’s Task List 
 
A business analyst has four tasks to perform in the Strategy Analysis knowledge area. We will 
look at each of these tasks in greater detail later in this chapter. The task list from the BABOK® 
Guide includes the following:  

•Analysing the current state of the business  
•Defining the desired future state of the business  
•Determining the change strategy and solution scope  
•Assessing the risks of the selected change strategy  
Tasks from the Strategy Analysis knowledge area focus on defining the business requirements 
and justifying delivery of the solution scope for the project. A business analyst is responsible 
for developing, defining, and managing the roles and tasks associated with this work. Tasks 
performed as part of this knowledge area are governed by the business analysis approach. 
Business analysis performance metrics for the tasks and deliverables are also defined and 
tracked. We will step through each of these tasks in greater detail. 
 
When Does Strategy Analysis Take Place? 
 The trick to forgetting the big picture is to look at everything close up. —Chuck Palahniuk  
 
The tasks in the Strategy Analysis knowledge area take place primarily at the beginning of a 
project. Many of these tasks are done as part of pre-project activities or the basis of a project’s 
controlled start. The business requirements created for a project are like the frame on a painting: 
They frame and control the desired solution scope and the work efforts required to build the 
solution. The solution scope and high-level business requirements may require changes, need 
updates, or be enhanced with additional details as each subsequent phase of the project life 
cycle is performed. As previously discussed, the controlled start of a project includes pre-
project activities to determine whether it is a viable and worthwhile project for the business. At 
the end of controlled start, the business analysis team should have the solution scope finalized 
and a compelling set of business requirements built and approved by the senior management 
team. 