Communicate Business Analysis Package Business analysts are expected to provide 
stakeholders with details about the change so the stakeholders can understand the information. 
Communicating this information allows stakeholders to review the package, ask questions, and 
raise any issues pertaining to what they have read. 
Common ways to communicate business analysis information packages include group 
collaboration, individual collaboration, and email or other nonverbal methods. Group 
collaboration allows for immediate discussion and feedback from a group of stakeholders 
regarding the package contents. Individual collaboration is a one-on-one review of the package  
between the business analysts and a single stakeholder. Nonverbal methods such as email are 
used when the information is clear and few questions or explanations are expected. 

Techniques to Consider 

The BABOK® Guide recommends three techniques for communicating requirements with 
stakeholders: interviews, reviews, and workshops. Let’s summarize each of these techniques. 
Interviews Interviews are typically used when communicating the contents of a business 
analysis information package to a single stakeholder in a one-on-one setting. This facilitates 
individual understanding of the information. 
Reviews Reviews allow a group of stakeholders to understand the contents of a business 
analysis information package and provide feedback on the contents. Reviews are also used 
when approvals for a change are being sought. 

Workshops Requirements workshops are structured meetings where a group of stakeholders 
works together to provide feedback and approval of a business analysis information package. 
This technique is typically used during group collaboration. 
Once you have applied one or more of the recommended techniques to communicate your 
business analysis information, you can say that the business analysis information has been 
communicated. Remember that communicating business analysis information ensures that the 
stakeholders understand what they have been told. Let’s review the concept of communicating 
business analysis information one more time. 

Communicating Business Analysis Information to Your Stakeholders 
Once you have decided how to approach formally or informally documenting business analysis 
information, you are ready to communicate the information to your stakeholders. Remember 
that the communicated business analysis information is not just transmitted from the business 
analyst to the stakeholders. It must be received, understood, and acknowledged by those 
stakeholders in order for effective business analysis information communication to have taken 
place. There is no standardized output trail. 

The business analyst has the primary responsibility for communicating business analysis 
information during requirements development activities on a project. However, all business 
analysis stakeholders may have a role in this task and could be involved with business analysis 
information communication activities across the project life cycle. Typical stakeholder roles 
involved with this activity include end user, customer, domain SME, implementation SME, 
and tester. They may be a sender or a receiver of the communicated information. 
Now let’s take a look at the next step in effective requirements elicitation and collaboration—
effectively managing stakeholder collaboration. 
 