Techniques to Consider 
The BABOK® Guide recommends that you select from a number of techniques when assessing 
a proposed change to requirements or designs. Let’s step through these techniques now, since 
you should make yourself familiar with all of them. 
Business Cases A business case is often used to justify a proposed change. Business cases are 
particularly relevant when looking at the benefits to be gained by accepting the proposed 
change to requirements or designs. 
Business Rules Analysis This technique is used during impact analysis to trace business rules 
to the requirements that the business rules support. The technique also works in a different 
direction and can be used to trace the business rules that support requirements. 
Decision Analysis Decision analysis facilitates the change assessment process by examining 
and modelling the possible consequences of different actions. This helps the business analyst 
decide whether to approve, deny, or defer a proposed change to requirements or designs. 
Document Analysis Use document analysis to analyse existing documents to help you 
understand the possible impacts of a proposed change to the requirements or designs. 
Estimation Estimating the cost and effort to implement a proposed change is a necessary step 
in impact analysis. Estimation is an iterative process where the act of review and revision takes 
place as more information is known over time. 
Financial Analysis This technique estimates the financial consequences of a proposed change 
to requirements or designs. Consequences include financial viability, stability, and benefit 
realization. 
Interface Analysis Interface analysis identifies interfaces that can be affected by a proposed 
change to requirements or designs. This technique looks at where, what, why, when, how, and 
for whom information is exchanged between solution components or across solution 
boundaries. 
Interviews Business analysts use interviews to talk with individuals and small groups of 
stakeholders in order to understand the impact of the change on the organization or its assets. 
 