Mind Mapping Mind mapping is a visual, nonlinear diagramming technique for a group of 
key stakeholders to develop and explore ideas for change strategies. 
 Organizational Modelling Use this technique to describe roles, responsibilities, and reporting 
structures that are part of the solution scope and are needed during the change. 
 
Process Modelling Process modelling describes how work would occur in the solution scope 
or during the change transitions. 
 
Scope Modelling Scope modelling assists the business analyst in determining what is in scope 
and what is out of scope for the solution and for the change that is being made. 
 
SWOT Analysis SWOT analysis lets you compare the costs and benefits of implementing a 
potential solution or change strategy. As previously discussed, there are two dimensions to this 
analysis: the internal strengths and weaknesses of the organization and the external 
opportunities and negative impacts that are in play. The business analyst is seeking to maximize 
strengths and minimize weaknesses. 
 
Vendor Assessment When goods or services may be purchased from a third party as all or part 
of a proposed solution or change strategy, an assessment of that vendor should be included as 
part of the change strategy. 
 
Workshops Workshops are used for groups of stakeholders to collaboratively develop change 
strategies with stakeholders. 
 
Let’s take a look at the outputs that result from applying one or more of these techniques to 
defining solution scope and developing a change strategy. 
 
Building the Change Strategy 
 
The change strategy is the approach that the organization will follow to guide a change in the 
way things are being done. The solution scope is achieved through execution of the change 
strategy. The solution scope describes what must be delivered to meet a business need. This 
includes any effects the solution might have on the business and technology operations and 
infrastructure of the organization. Solution scope can change throughout the project, based on 
changes to the business environment or project scope over time. 
 
Once the solution scope is defined and the change strategy is selected, they are used as inputs 
to numerous business analysis tasks (Table 3.10). 