Techniques to Consider 

Acceptance and Evaluation Criteria Stakeholders and decision-makers define acceptance 
and evaluation criteria in order to make decisions regarding proposed requirements and designs 
changes. 
Decision Analysis Decision analysis allows you to examine and model the consequences of 
different decisions before making a well-informed decision. When resolving issues and 
evaluating proposed changes, business analysts use decision analysis to resolve issues and gain 
agreement. 
Item Tracking Item tracking allows tracking of any issues raised by stakeholders during the 
agreement and approval activities. 
Reviews Reviews are used to evaluate requirements and designs relative to a proposed change. 
Workshops Requirements workshops are structured meetings where a selected group of 
stakeholders works together to define or refine a set of project requirements. During a 
requirements workshop, specific requirements may be presented to make everyone familiar 
with the existing solution scope and the current requirements. 
Once you have applied one or more of the recommended techniques and gained approval of 
your requirements, those requirements are now approved requirements. Remember that 
communicating requirements ensures that the stakeholders understand what they have been 
told.

Approving Requirements with Your Stakeholders 

Remember that proposed changes to requirements and designs are not just communicated from 
the business analyst to the stakeholders. They must be received, understood, and acknowledged 
by those stakeholders in order for effective requirements communication to have taken place. 
Table 4.13 shows this output trail. 
 
Table 4.13 shows this output trail. 
The business analyst has the primary responsibility for ensuring that proposed changes to 
requirements and designs are analyzed, communicated, and approved during the requirements 
development activities on a project. In tandem, the project manager identifies and manages the 
risks associated with the approved changes. Additional stakeholders involved with approving 
requirements include the following: 
 
 Customers 
 Domain SMEs 
 End users  
 Operational support  
 Regulators  
 Sponsor 
 Testers 
 
Remember that all business analysis stakeholders may have a role in this task and could be 
involved with requirements approval activities across the project life cycle. At a minimum, 
they may be a sender or a receiver of the communicated requirements information 
