Prepare for Elicitation 
 
The first task in the Elicitation and Collaboration knowledge area is where you prepare a 
detailed schedule of your elicitation activities. Your elicitation activities can include 
interviewing an individual face-to-face, creating a survey to send out to a thousand worldwide 
end users, or facilitating a group workshop of 15 people. Your preparation work should include 
the following:
 
 Defining the desired outcome for the elicitation activity 
 Determining the work product or products to be produced 
 Deciding the techniques to be used to produce the results 
 Establishing the elicitation logistics 
 Identifying supporting materials that are needed 
 Planning to foster collaboration during the elicitation activity 
This preparation step ensures that the necessary stakeholder resources are organized and 
scheduled in advance. This step also allows you to get all of your ducks in a row—from meeting 
room logistics to required materials to attendance and attention from the right people. Figure 
5.1 summarizes the inputs, guidelines and tools, outputs, techniques, and associated tasks used 
to prepare for requirements elicitation. 

Figure 5.1 Task summary: Prepare for elicitation. 
 
Several key inputs are needed to adequately prepare to elicit requirements information on your 
project. These key inputs are produced by a number of other business analysis tasks, and they 
include the needs and the stakeholder engagement approach. Let’s take a look at each of these 
task inputs in greater detail: 
Needs The business needs define the problem or opportunity being faced by the business. This 
information is used to determine the information to be elicited when developing business 
requirements early in the project life cycle. Elicitation is also used to discover and flesh out 
these needs early in your project. 
Stakeholder Engagement Approach Planning and preparing for elicitation requires an 
understanding of how your stakeholders communicate and collaborate. The stakeholder 
engagement approach is a good place to start when you are ready to elicit business analysis 
information.