Potential Value Potential value is the value to be realized when a proposed future state is 
implemented. This definition of business value provides a benchmark against which risks can 
be assessed across the project life cycle.  
 
Requirements (Prioritized) Prioritized requirements link to and influence the risks along the 
way to solution realization. Keep an eye on the requirements priorities as you perform risk 
analysis activities as they directly influence how you prioritize and address the identified risks. 
  
There are additional inputs that may be used by business analysis tasks: guidelines and tools. 
Guidelines are essentially instructions or descriptions on why and how a business analyst will 
undertake a task. Tools, on the other hand, are methods for conducting a business analysis task 
or shaping a task output. Let’s take a look at the guidelines and tools that may also be used as 
inputs when assessing risks: 
 
Business Analysis Approach The business analysis approach provides the framework for all 
business analysis activities. It contains the guidelines for how business analysts will perform 
risks analysis on their project.  
 
Business Policies The limits and boundaries for decision making within the organization live 
here. These policies may have an impact on the risk management activities taking place.  
 
Change Strategy The change strategy tells us how we plan to transition from the current state 
to the future state. Risks associated with this change and the steps of the change need to be 
considered when analyzing risks.  

Current State Description How things are currently working provides the context within 
which the new work needs to be completed. Current state risks may come into play on your 
project, and you should watch for them.  
 
Future State Description Along with the change strategy and the business requirements, this 
description provides business analysts with a baseline for determining the risks associated with 
achieving the future state.  
 
Identified Risks Identified risks come from the risk analysis results and can be used as a 
starting point for additional risk identification and analysis activities relative to the current and 
future states. 
 
Stakeholder Engagement Approach Stakeholders are an important source of risks for your 
project. Be aware of your stakeholders and get them involved with the risk assessment efforts 
across the project life cycle. 