3.4 Assess Risks 
During Strategy Analysis, the business analyst analyzes and manages the risks relative to the 
current state, the future state, and the change strategy. According to the BABOK® Guide, the 
risks are analyzed in a basic way with which most of us are familiar. The business analyst looks 
at the possible consequences if the negative risk occurs, the impact of the consequences, the 
actual likelihood of the risk occurring, and the potential timeframe when the risk might occur. 
 
Effective business analysts understand the consequences of internal and external forces on the 
enterprise when working toward a desired future state. Assessing and being aware of risks 
allows the business analyst to recommend courses of actions as well as select a change strategy 
that fits the situation at hand. Business analysts manage risks on their projects at any stage of 
the life cycle to minimize the impact of those risks on the value of the implemented solution or 
change. 

Figure 3.5 summarizes the tasks involved in assessing risks during strategy analysis. 

Figure 3.5 Task summary: Assess risks. 
 
Table 3.6 summarizes the inputs to this task and also lists the particular task that was the source 
of the input (if applicable). Let’s take a look at the task inputs used to assess risks. 
 
Remember, inputs are either informational in nature or can be outputs produced by other 
business analysis tasks. Inputs are acted on by the task elements and techniques, producing one 
or more task outputs. Let’s take a look at the task inputs used when assessing risks. 
 
Business Objectives Business objectives describe and point to the desired direction needed to 
achieve the future state. They are also used to identify and discuss potential risks along the way 
as part of the risk analysis efforts.  
 
Designs (Prioritized) Prioritized designs link to and influence the risks along the way to 
solution realization. Keep an eye on the designs priorities as you perform risk analysis activities 
as they directly influence how you prioritize and address the identified risks.  
 
Elicitation Results (Confirmed) Effective business analysts make sure that the elicitation 
information contains an understanding of what the stakeholders perceive as risks in achieving 
the desired future state. 
 
 Influences (Internal and External) Influences are factors from inside and outside the 
enterprise that can impact achieving the future state. They can be as simple as organizational 
attitudes toward a proposed change in how things are done or tangible influences such as 
existing or proposed infrastructure and technology. 