Recommended Technique: Organizational Modelling 

Most of us have seen an organization chart showing the hierarchy. This is an example of an 
organizational model. The model defines the purpose and structure of an organization or an 
organizational unit. When you use this technique for business analysis, you basically build an 
organization chart that shows the organizational units, lines of reporting, the roles, and the 
people in those roles. When you are working with a new client, one of the first things you 
should ask for is a current organization chart. This will allow you to evaluate who sits where 
in the food chain and to decide who you might initially involve in your business analysis efforts. 
This is an excellent way to identify business analysis stakeholders. 

Recommended Technique: Stakeholder List, Map, or Personas 
 
Stakeholder lists, maps, and personas are essential to any business analysis effort. The amount 
of information you put in your list is up to you. What you draw in your graphical representation 
of your stakeholders depends on the initiative itself. Personas are sometimes built to represent 
groups of users and how they interact with a product, kind of like building a fictional character 
and thinking about how they do things at work. Let’s take a closer look at stakeholder maps 
and how they might be used when analyzing stakeholders. 
 
There are two basic types of stakeholder maps: a stakeholder matrix and an onion diagram. A 
stakeholder matrix provides a two-dimensional look at stakeholder influence versus their level 
of interest in your efforts. By comparison, an onion diagram depicts stakeholder involvement 
with the resulting solution. Figure 2.3 shows an onion diagram. 

Figure 2.3 Onion diagram 
 
Another popular and useful stakeholder analysis technique is a RACI matrix. This matrix 
defines business analysis stakeholder roles across four designations: Responsible, 
Accountable, Consulted, and Informed. You may create the matrix for the entire business 
analysis effort, a particular business analysis task, or a specific business analysis deliverable, 
such as the business analysis approach you learned about earlier in this chapter.  
Responsible (R) Business analysis stakeholders are responsible for the work that they are 
tasked to perform.  
Accountable (A) Accountability lies with the sole decision maker who makes the required 
decisions for the business analysis effort task or deliverable. For any task or deliverable, there 
is only one accountable stakeholder.  
Consulted (C) Relevant stakeholders should be consulted prior to the work being done if their 
inputs or advice is needed.  
Informed (I) This is usually an “after the fact” role as these stakeholders are notified of the 
outcome after work is complete. 
 
 