Other Techniques to Consider 
 
The BABOK® Guide lists some additional techniques that can be used when defining the 
change strategy and solution scope for a project. They are summarized for you here: 
 
Benchmarking and Market Analysis This technique compares organizational practices 
against best-in-class practices and is most often used when business analysts and key 
stakeholders are deciding which change strategy is preferred. 
 
Brainstorming Brainstorming allows a group of stakeholders to collaboratively generate ideas 
for change strategies. 
 
Business Capability Analysis Business capability analysis is a way to prioritize the capability 
gaps in relation to value and risk between the current state and the desired future state of things. 
 
Business Cases Business cases can be used to capture information about the recommended 
change strategy and other potential strategies that were assessed and considered but were not 
recommended. 
 
Business Model Canvas Business analysts can use this nine-box template to define the 
changes needed in the current infrastructure, customer base, and financial structure of the 
organization in order to achieve the potential value of making a change. 
 
Decision Analysis Decision analysis techniques compare the different change strategies in 
order to choose which change strategy is most appropriate in a given situation. 
 
Estimation Estimating techniques can be used to determine the timelines for activities within 
the preferred change strategy. 
 
Financial Analysis Financial analysis helps people understand the potential value associated 
with a specific change strategy. This technique can also be used to evaluate strategies against 
targets set for return on investments. 
 
Focus Groups Focus groups bring customers or end users together to get their input on the 
solution scope and change strategy. 
 
Functional Decomposition Functional decomposition allows you to systematically break 
down the solution scope components into smaller pieces when developing the change strategy. 
 
Interviews This technique involves talking to stakeholders, getting them to fully describe the 
solution scope and change scope, as well as sharing their ideas on the change strategy. 
Lessons Learned Remember to use lessons learned so you know what went wrong with past 
changes and can do things better this time. 