Select Requirements Attributes 
 
Selecting requirements attributes for a project is an important step. Attributes are intended to 
be of assistance in the ongoing management of requirements across the project life cycle. 
Experienced business analysts know how to select the requirements attributes that add value to 
the requirements information for their project. Attributes allow the team to associate 
information and add context to individual requirements or groups of requirements. 
 
The BABOK® Guide lists several techniques that you can use when planning for business 
analysis information management for your project. They are summarized for you here. 
 
Techniques to Consider 
 
Brainstorming Brainstorming with stakeholders helps them uncover and share ideas about 
what their business analysis information management needs might be. 
 
Interviews The business analysis team uses interviews with stakeholders as a way to identify 
and define their business analysis information management needs. 

Item Tracking This technique allows for managing and tracking of issues discovered relative 
to information management needs on your project or initiative. 
 
Lessons Learned Be sure to review existing information management tools, processes, and 
techniques used in your organization. The existing methods may have an impact on how to 
define and perform information management as part of your project. 
 
Mind Mapping Mind mapping allows the business analysis team to identify and categorize 
business analysis information that needs to be managed. 
 
Process Modelling Process models graphically depict the process used to manage business 
analysis information. These models can help your stakeholders understand how to manage 
requirements, designs, and other data on your projects. 
 
Survey or Questionnaire Many business analysts use this technique to remotely request 
stakeholder input about their business analysis information management needs. 
 
Workshops Workshops allow you to discover business analysis information needs from 
groups of stakeholders versus asking people one by one. 
 
Define the Business Analysis Information Management Approach 
 
•Organizing the business analysis information 
•Capturing information at the correct level of detail 
•Using or reusing the information across the enterprise 
•Accessing and storing information 
•Maintaining characteristics about the information 
 
Once the information management approach is complete, the business analysis team uses it as 
an input for a number of other business analysis tasks summarized in Table 2.13. The 
approach provides information to tasks from several knowledge areas that focus on eliciting, 
analyzing, and communicating project requirements. 