Recommended Technique: Brainstorming 
 
Brainstorming fosters creative thinking about the capabilities of a new solution across all levels 
of detail. Brainstorming enables out-of-the-box thinking in a nonjudgmental environment. Out-
of-the-box thinking is also called lateral thinking. 
 
Using brainstorming as an elicitation technique produces numerous new ideas from the people 
involved. If you haven’t used brainstorming as part of your requirements elicitation efforts, 
you should try it. You can draw on the experience and creativity of the participants in your 
brainstorming session, yielding a plethora of interesting and relevant results that require further 
analysis. 
 
A productive brainstorming session has two parts: idea generation and idea reduction. Idea 
generation is the creative part where people share their ideas with one another, no matter how 
off the wall those ideas might be. Idea reduction is where the group takes the generated ideas 
and cleans them up a bit to make the information useful for the situation at hand. 
 
Once the ideas are generated and recorded, they need to be analyzed and reduced to something 
useful. Wrapping up is where the idea reduction part of a brainstorming session takes place. 
The group discusses and evaluates ideas using the evaluation and rating criteria that were 
previously defined and agreed upon by the group as part of the meeting. Combining some ideas, 
deleting some ideas, and eliminating any duplicate ideas will build a condensed list. The 
resulting list will then be distributed to the appropriate parties for review. 

Additional Techniques to Consider 
 
There are many additional techniques to choose from when you find yourself preparing to elicit 
business analysis information on your projects. Let’s step through each of them here. 
 Data Mining This technique helps you to identify information or patterns from existing data 
that require further investigation during your planned elicitation activity. 
 
Document Analysis Use document analysis to analyze existing documents and supporting 
materials that might be helpful as part of the requirements elicitation process. 
Estimation Estimating the cost and effort to elicit business analysis information gives you a 
good idea of just what needs to be done and what getting the work done will take. 
Interviews Business analyst use interviews as part of elicitation preparation so they can 
identify concerns about the planned elicitation and seek authority to proceed when necessary. 
 
Mind Mapping Mind mapping is a visual, nonlinear, collaborative way to discover the sources 
of business analysis information that you need and which elicitation techniques might be most 
effective in a given situation. 
Risk Analysis and Management Risk analysis and management techniques determine the 
level of risk associated with eliciting business analysis information. Elicitation plans may be 
designed or changed to eliminate or minimize significant risks. 
 
Stakeholder List, Map, or Personas This stakeholder data is used to determine who should 
be consulted during elicitation preparation and who should be involved with the actual 
solicitation activity. 
Once you have selected and applied one or more techniques as part of your preparation efforts, 
you are ready to plan the elicitation activity itself. We will discuss that next. 
 