Decide the Traceability Approach  
 
Traceability is a tricky thing. The business analyst wants to show the relationships between key 
pieces of business analysis information while not spending time tracing things that are not 
important. The information management approach is where the business analysis team figures 
out how to trace project requirements and designs. These decisions are based on project type 
and complexity. 
 
•Complexity of the domain 
•Number of views of requirements that will be produced 
•Requirements related risks, standards, and regulations 
•Costs and benefits of traceability 
 
Creating and maintaining traceability adds to the business analyst’s workload on a project, so 
it should be reflected in the information management approach as well as in all subsequent 
planning activities. 
 
Plan for Requirements Reuse 
 
Some requirements developed for a particular project might also be candidates for long-term 
use or reuse by the organization. The requirements that you choose to maintain might relate to 
infrastructure, hardware, software, or operational capabilities that the organization must meet 
on an ongoing basis versus just for your particular project. Common features or services used 
across multiple systems or process are also good candidates for reuse. Reusable requirements 
are structured, stored, and accessed by other business analysts in the organization. This “ease 
of reuse” requires advance planning and a common requirements storage repository. 
 
•Regulatory requirements 
•Contractual obligations 
•Quality standards 
•Service level agreements (SLAs) 
•Business rules or processes 

We will take a closer look at reusing requirements and designs in Chapter 4, when we look at 
the maintain requirements task within this knowledge area. Reuse requires the ability for people 
to access the saved information. Let’s look at that element next. 
 
Look at Information Storage and Access 
 
It is essential that the business analysis team create an information repository for storing 
requirements and designs. Use of the repository should be linked to the process defined in the 
information management approach and in the higher-level business analysis approach. 
Documents created during the project life cycle should be saved in a secured area. 
 
The storage location for requirements and design work-in-progress documentation is at the 
discretion of the project manager or lead business analyst. Documents and copies (electronic 
or paper) that exist outside the project or business analysis information repositories should be 
made the responsibility of the document originator. 