Data Modelling Data modelling defines entity relationships during elicitation activities using 
a diagram and textual descriptions of the pieces and parts. 
Document Analysis Document analysis allows the business analyst to review documented 
information about existing systems, contracts, policies, procedures, standards, and regulations. 
Interface Analysis This technique focuses on understanding the interaction between two 
entities, such as systems, organizations, or individual roles. 

Interviews Interviews involve asking questions of stakeholders to uncover needs, identify 
problems, or discover opportunities during the requirements elicitation process. 
Mind Mapping Mind mapping is a visual, nonlinear collaborative way of generating, 
organizing, and prioritizing many ideas from a group of stakeholders. 
Observation Watching people do their work is an excellent way to gain insight about how the 
work is actually done. 

Process Analysis Process analysis focuses on understanding the current processes and 
identifying opportunities to improve those processes as part of an elicitation activity. 
Process Modelling Process modelling is a way to understand and think about improving 
processes with stakeholders during elicitation activities. 
Survey or Questionnaire Surveys and questionnaires allow the business analyst to elicit 
business analysis information about customers, products, work practices, and attitudes in a 
structured way from a group of stakeholders. 
Workshops Workshops are a collaborative and facilitated way to elicit information about 
customers, products, work practices, and attitudes from a stakeholder group. 

Think of each recommended elicitation technique as a three-step process: prepare, conduct, and 
wrap-up. Figure 5.3 illustrates the sequence of the steps for you. First, you prepare to use the 
technique you have chosen for eliciting requirements. The preparation activities will be driven 
by the technique you have selected. Then, you conduct the elicitation activity and use the 
selected technique in the appropriate way. After the elicitation activity is done, you then are 
responsible for wrapping things up by reviewing, reporting, and, as needed, further 
investigating what you have learned. 

Figure 5.3 Applying the elicitation techniques 
 
Produce the Elicitation Results 
 
The elicitation results are just what the name says: the informally documented results of your  
requirements elicitation efforts. These might be your informal notes, scribbles, and pictures 
representing what you have been told. Your informal elicitation results are then used as input 
to the confirm elicitation results task. Table 5.7 summarizes this transaction. 
Table 5.7 Output: Conduct elicitation activity. 