4.4 Assess Requirements Changes 
One thing is certain when it comes to developing requirements—at some point in time, those 
requirements are going to change. Ideally, the changes are handled in a consistent, formal 
fashion by using a change request to initiate the process of assessing and decision making. This 
task is performed when a proposed change identifies new needs or possible solutions to those 
needs. The proposed change must be assessed before action is taken to approve, deny, or 
modify the request. 
 
Business analysts view proposed requirements and design changes relative to the solution 
value, the current set of requirements, and the level of risk. Experienced business analysts 
should ask the following questions when assessing a proposed change. Does the proposed 
change: 
 
 Align with the overall strategy? 
 Affect the value delivered to the business or the stakeholders? 
 Impact the timeline or resources required to deliver the value? 
 Alter any risks, opportunities, or constraints? 

The answers to these questions drive the outcome of assessing the proposed change. When 
assessing a proposed change, remember to use the decision-making and change control 
approaches defined in the governance approach that was created by the task Plan Business 
Analysis Governance as part of Business Analysis Planning and Monitoring. 
 
Figure 4.5summarizes the inputs, guidelines, tools, outputs, techniques, and associated tasks 
for assessing requirements changes on a project. 
 
Figure 4.5 Task summary: Assess requirements changes. 
  
Several key inputs are used to assess requirements changes during a project. These inputs are 
produced by other business analysis tasks.  
Proposed Change A proposed change to requirements or designs can occur at almost any time 
and impact the business analysis work and deliverables completed to date. Triggers for 
proposed changes include business strategy changes, stakeholders, legal requirements, or 
regulatory changes. 