Distinguishing Between Requirements and Design  
 
Requirements and design are closely linked. Many times, the distinction between requirements 
and design is unclear. Business analysts will use the same techniques to elicit, model, and 
analyze requirements and designs on their projects. Figure 1.2 shows the relationship between 
requirements and design in the BABOK® Guide. 
 
Figure 1.2 Requirements and design cycle 
 
Defining the Requirements Management Process  
 
The requirements management process is a detailed subset of the business analysis approach, 
targeting how the team performs requirements development activities for a project. The process 
should be documented in the requirements management plan. This deliverable defines many 
things, including the following: 
 
•How the team will deal with requirements traceability  
•The explicit process for developing requirements  
•How requirements will be prioritized  
•What requirements attributes will be collected   
•How changing requirements will be handled both during requirements development and 
after the requirements are agreed upon and base lined  
•Who will review and approve requirements and any requested changes 
  
Classifying Requirements  
The BABOK® Guide defines a requirement as a condition or capability needed by a 
stakeholder to solve a problem or to achieve an objective. This aligns nicely with the 
International Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers (IEEE) definition of 
requirements for software-intensive systems. Regardless of project type, a business analyst 
must use project requirements to design, develop, and deliver a solution that adds value to the 
business as a whole.  

Different organizations use different names for requirements classes. To implement the 
BABOK® Guide requirements classification scheme, a business analyst needs to assess and 
map the levels of requirements in their organization’s existing requirements process 
documents. While the exam requires that you know the requirements classification scheme, 
you don’t have to use BABOK® Guide requirements classes. However, it is good practice that 
your requirements development approach addresses all of the BABOK® Guide requirements 
classes in some way. Figure 1.3 shows the relationships between the BABOK® Guide 
requirements classes. 

Figure 1.3 Classes of requirements 
 
Business Requirements Business requirements are the highest level of requirements and are 
developed during Strategy Analysis activities. They define the high-level goals, objectives, and 
needs of the organization. They also describe and justify the high-level business functionality 
that is needed in the resulting solution. To define a solution, business analysts will 
progressively elaborate and decompose business requirements to the next level of detail, the 
stakeholder requirements. 
 
Stakeholder Requirements These requirements define the needs of stakeholders and how they 
will interact with a solution. Stakeholder requirements bridge between the business 
requirements and the more detailed solution requirements. Many folks refer to stakeholder 
requirements as high-level user requirements. They identify what is needed from the user’s 
perspective and define “big picture” capabilities that the resulting solution must possess.