Requirements To prioritize requirements defining stakeholder needs and capabilities, a 
business analyst needs to have those requirements available. Requirements ready for 
prioritization can be in the form of text, matrices, or diagrams. 
Designs To prioritize any designs associated with the solution, business analysts need to have 
those designs on hand in the form of text, prototypes, or diagrams. 
There are additional inputs that can be used by business analysis tasks: guidelines and tools. 
Guidelines are essentially instructions or descriptions on why and how a business analyst will 
undertake a task. Tools are methods for conducting a business analysis task or shaping a task 
output. Here is a look at the guidelines and tools that can also be used as inputs when 
prioritizing requirements: 
Business Constraints Requirements priorities should align with the regulatory statutes, 
contractual obligations, and business policies of the enterprise. These constraints may drive the 
priority of one or more requirements. 
Change Strategy The change strategy documents costs, timelines, and value realization goals 
that can factor into prioritizing requirements to meet these planned goals and measures. 
Domain Knowledge Stakeholders with specific domain knowledge contribute a lot of value to 
requirements prioritization activities. Their knowledge and experience are indispensable. 
Governance Approach The governance approach, built during Business Analysis Planning 
and Monitoring, defines the approach for the business analyst to take on the project when 
prioritizing requirements. 
Requirements Architecture The requirements architecture defines the relationship of 
requirements to other requirement and work products. 
Requirements Management Tools/Repository Many requirements management tools 
include a data field for specifying requirements priorities. This field prompts the business 
analyst to prioritize the requirement and assists in sorting and searching the requirements for 
the project by priority. 
Solution Scope The solution scope should be kept front and center when prioritizing 
requirements in order to deliver the full solution in the end. 

Table 4.6 summarizes the inputs, guidelines, and tools used by this task. It also lists the task 
and knowledge area sources for each item used to prioritize requirements.
 
 