Table 4.12 summarizes the inputs, guidelines, and tools to the business analysis task of 
approving requirements and lists the source of the input (if applicable). 
 
You need to perform the elements that are part of this task in order to communicate and gain 
approval of the project requirements by key stakeholders. The four elements are as follows: 
 Understand stakeholder roles.  
 Address conflict and issue management.  
 Gain consensus.  
 Track and communicate approval. 
Understand Stakeholder Roles The approval process for proposed changes to requirements 
or designs is defined in the business analysis governance approach. Stakeholder roles and 
authority levels in this process must be defined and understood. It is essential to know who has 
the decision-making and sign-off authority. Look for influential stakeholders that should be 
consulted or informed about the changes, as well. These influencers can help with 
communicating and gaining consensus about the changes that are proposed. 

Address Conflict and Issue Management Maintaining stakeholder support for a change to 
requirements or designs can be challenging. The BABOK® Guide recommends seeking 
consensus for the change among stakeholders prior to requesting that they approve and sign-
off on the change. The business analysis governance approach built during Business Analysis 
Planning and Monitoring defines how to make decisions about changes and resolve any 
conflicts that arise. 

Gain Consensus Approval requires a business analyst to review requirements changes with 
accountable stakeholders and request that they agree to and approve that change. Often, this 
process requires facilitation of the approval process, addressing questions and providing 
additional information as needed. Approving a change confirms that stakeholders believe the 
change creates sufficient value for the organization. 

Track and Communicate Approval Formal requirements communication follows the 
contents of the business analysis governance approach when it comes to dealing with proposed 
changes. Informal communication takes place whenever it is needed. Business analysts record 
the change approval decisions, often using requirements management tools. 
Stakeholders should be able to see what requirements and design changes are approved and in 
the queue for implementation. Many projects require an audit history of changes to 
requirements. Be sure to document what was changed, the business analyst who made the 
change, the reason for the change, and when the change was made.