The focus group should be conducted in a one-to-two-hour session. The moderator is 
responsible for guiding the discussion using the discussion guide as a road map. The recorder 
is responsible for capturing the group’s comments. It is not advisable for the moderator to be 
the recorder—it is quite difficult to facilitate a focus group and take notes at the same time. An 
alternative is to make audio and/or video recordings of the focus group. 
After the session is complete, the moderator is responsible for analyzing and documenting the 
session results. A key output is group themes and perspectives. This captures agreements, as 
well as disagreements, in the areas being discussed. The moderator produces the report and 
sends that report to key stakeholders, business analysts, or marketing staff. 
 
Recommended Technique: Prototyping 
 
Prototyping is a great way to add detail to your solution interface requirements and integrate 
those requirements with the other requirements defining the new solution. Essentially, a 
prototype is an initial or preliminary version of a solution or system. 
Prototypes are extremely valuable for identifying, describing, and validating your solution 
needs during requirements development. There is tremendous value in allowing early user 
interaction and feedback with a new solution. For software projects, mocked-up screens or 
report layouts allow users to interact with and comment on the solution. 
 
Two categories of prototypes are defined in the BABOK® Guide: throw-away prototypes and 
evolutionary or functional prototypes. Let’s take a closer look at each category: 
 
Throw-Away Throw-away prototypes are built to uncover and identify solution requirements 
using simple tools. These tools can be paper based or computer based. A throw-away prototype 
is intended to be discarded after the final system is complete. These prototypes don’t have 
anything much under the covers that would be of operational use. Throw-away prototypes are 
used to gather requirements information. 
 
Evolutionary or Functional Evolutionary prototypes are built to be the basis for the new fully 
functioning system. To use them in this way, the prototypes must be built using a specialized 
prototyping tool or language. They ultimately become the working software application that is 
part of the solution. Evolutionary prototypes are also called functional prototypes. 