Recommended Technique: Collaborative Games 
Collaborative games stimulate teamwork and collaboration by putting participants in an 
environment where they elicit information and build a joint understanding of a problem or 
solution. These games are designed to facilitate collaboration between the participants while 
focusing them on a specific objective. Participants share their knowledge on a particular topic, 
identify assumptions, and explore the knowledge together in creative ways. People with 
different points of view learn how to work together and develop a shared model of what is 
needed. 
A neutral facilitator usually manages the event and enforces the rules of the game across all 
participants. Most collaborative games involve a strong visual or tactile element, such as using 
sticky notes, whiteboards, or drawing pictures. Games typically have these three steps: 

1. The first step is an opening step to get participants involved and aware of the rules of 
the game. They may also start generating ideas during this step. 
2. The exploration step is where participants engage and look for connections between 
their ideas, test the ideas, and experiment with new ideas. 
3. The closing step has everyone assessing the ideas and working out which ideas are the 
most useful relative to the objective of the game. 
At the end of the game, the facilitator debriefs the activity. Participants then review the results 
and decide what needs to happen next as a result of what was learned in the session. 
 
Additional Techniques to Consider 
There are many other techniques to choose from when you find yourself managing and 
encouraging stakeholder collaboration on your projects. Let’s step through each of them here: 
Lessons Learned Lessons learned provide a great way to understand stakeholder engagement 
and satisfaction as part of your project team. They also offer the opportunity to improve 
working relationships by making changes in the way things are done. 

Additional Techniques to Consider 

There are many other techniques to choose from when you find yourself managing and 
encouraging stakeholder collaboration on your projects. Let’s step through each of them here: 
Lessons Learned Lessons learned provide a great way to understand stakeholder engagement 
and satisfaction as part of your project team. They also offer the opportunity to improve 
working relationships by making changes in the way things are done. 
Risk Analysis and Management Risk analysis and management is used to identify and 
manage stakeholder-related risks, such as participation, involvement, or engagement. 
Stakeholder List, Map, or Personas This technique provides the business analyst with a list 
of the stakeholders who are available to participate in business analysis work. 
Once you have selected and applied one or more techniques as part of your efforts, you are 
ready to get your stakeholders engaged with your project efforts. We will discuss that next. 
Achieving Stakeholder Engagement 

The BABOK® Guide defines stakeholder engagement as “willingness from stakeholders to 
engage in business analysis activities and interact with the business analyst when necessary.” 
All types of stakeholders may be involved with the business analysis activities on a project at 
some point in time. Managing these stakeholder resources effectively and keeping them 
engaged with the work falls on the business analyst’s shoulders. This task output is fairly 
subjective. You will be tasked with getting the stakeholders to “play pretty” and be a part of 
things. All stakeholders on your project may collaborate with the business analyst, project team 
members, and one another while dealing with a proposed change. 

Now let’s wrap up our review of the Elicitation and Collaboration knowledge area 