There are other guidelines and tools that can be used. Guidelines are instructions or descriptions 
about why or how the business analyst might undertake a particular task. Tools are methods of 
conducting business analysis tasks or shaping a task output. Let’s take a look at the guidelines 
and tools that business analysts apply when planning the business analysis information 
management approach:  
 
Business Analysis Performance Assessment Be sure to review and incorporate results of 
previous business analysis efforts into your business analysis information management 
approach.  
 
Business Policies Business policies define the limits within which business decisions must be 
made and how work will be completed. These policies also frame and constrain the information 
management approach that you select.  
 
Information Management Tools Take a look at the tools your organization currently uses to 
store, retrieve, and share business analysis information. These may be the tools your 
organization requires you to use on your initiative.  
Legal/Regulatory Information Sometimes legislative rules or regulations have an impact on 
your business analysis information. If that is the case, you need to address these additional 
constraints, such as information security or privacy, in your information management 
approach. 
 
Table 2.11 summarizes the inputs, guidelines, and tools for this task and lists the source of the 
input (if applicable). 

Planning the information management approach for business analysis activities requires the 
business analyst to understand both the business and technical drivers for the project. The 
business analyst addresses six detailed elements when planning for requirements management 
activities across the project life cycle. 
 
•Organize business analysis information.  
•Define the levels of abstraction.  
•Decide the traceability approach.  
•Plan for requirements reuse. 
•Look at information storage and access. 
•Select requirements attributes. 
 