Chapter 5: Controlled Middle: Elicitation and Collaboration 
 
Introduction 
Business analysts elicit the necessary information to develop their business, stakeholder, 
solution, and transition requirements for their projects. The five tasks in the Elicitation and 
Collaboration knowledge area guide you in gathering and understanding what the project 
stakeholders need from a new solution. Remember that effective elicitation is not just asking 
questions. It is a human-based activity in which you determine the right sources for your 
requirements and decide how to gather the right information from those sources. Elicitation is 
very much like a scientific investigation. You will find yourself actively engaged in research, 
reading, talking, and observing what is going on in the organization as it relates to your project 
requirements. Elicitation includes organizing and evaluating the results to make sure you have 
well-organized information, the right level of knowledge, and a good handle on the scope and 
status of your elicitation efforts. 
 
5.1 Requirements Elicitation 
The Elicitation knowledge area focuses on gathering the right information to develop project 
requirements. The requirements for your project are the foundation for a solution that will be 
designed and deployed by the project and its efforts. Elicitation is defined as “drawing forth or 
receiving of information from stakeholders or other sources.” Collaboration is defined as “the 
act of two or more people working together towards a common goal.” 
 
Requirements elicitation can be very challenging. When working with your stakeholders to 
define requirements, you are often faced with stakeholders who express those requirements in 
their own terms. You must learn to speak the stakeholders’ language in order to understand the 
capabilities that are being described. Stakeholders don’t always tell you everything that you 
need to know, at least not the first time around. Elicitation techniques must be selected to gather 
as much relevant information as quickly as possible. 