Typically, the business analyst is responsible for identifying and investigating 
the need. It is a best practice to appoint a sponsor who owns the business need and authorizes 
the actions to make sure that need is met. Often this is done by the project that was triggered 
as a result of the business need being identified and addressed. Domain SMEs and end users 
can provide the business analyst with an excellent source of existing problems or limitations 
with systems and processes. Other key stakeholders involved with analyzing the current state 
of the enterprise relative to the business need include the following:  

 Customer  
 Implementation SME  
 Operational support  
 Project manager  
 Regulator  
 Supplier  
 Tester  

The business requirements and current state description guide the identification, definition, and 
selection of new capabilities, possible solutions, and solution approaches. Remember that the 
business need is typically contained in the business requirements created as an output from this 
task. Using the business requirements and current state description, you will now move to the 
next task and define the desired future state that meets the business need. 
Define Future State After the business analyst analyzes and understands the current state of the 
enterprise relative to the business need, the next step is to define the new capabilities required 

to address that business need. You must determine whether the organization’s existing 
capabilities can meet the business need or whether additional capabilities and conditions are 
necessary. Typically, projects begin when organizations have to add new capabilities to the 
mix in order to meet a business need. Defining the future state allows the stakeholders to 
understand the potential value of a range of solution options. This leads to making an informed 
decision and selecting the best possible solution as part of the change strategy. We will look at 
the change strategy in more detail later in this chapter. According to the BABOK® Guide, the 
future state is defined to a level of detail that: 

 Allows for competing strategies to be identified and assessed 
 Provides clear definition of outcomes satisfying the business need  
 Details the scope of the solution space  
 Allows for value associated with the future state to be assessed 
 Enables consensus to be achieved among key stakeholders 

Figure 3.3 summarizes the inputs, outputs, techniques, and associated tasks for defining the 
future state at the appropriate level of detail relative to the business need within an organization. 
 
Figure 3.3 Task summary: Define future state. 