Item Tracking Item tracking or issue management tracks any issues or conflicts that were 
discovered during impact analysis activities. 
Risk Analysis and Management Risk analysis and management techniques determine the 
level of risk associated with a proposed change as part of impact analysis activities. 
Workshops Workshops allow groups of stakeholders to collectively discuss and understand 
the impacts of a proposed change or decide what to do about one or more proposed changes. 
Assessing Requirements Changes 
A Requirements or Designs Change Assessment is the output of this task. This assessment 
contains a recommendation to approve, modify, or deny a proposed change to either area based 
upon the results of the impact analysis. Table 4.11 summarizes these outputs. 
Table 4.11 Outputs: Assess requirements changes. 

Business analysts have the primary responsibility for assessing requirements and design 
changes as part of requirements development activities on a project. The project manager 
reviews the requirements or design change assessment to see what impact the change might 
have on the solution. Other stakeholders involved in assessing requirements changes include 
the following: 

 Customer  
 Domain SME  
 End user 
 Operational support  
 Regulator 
 Sponsor  
 Tester 

Approve Requirements 
Much of the work that you perform as part of the Requirements Life Cycle Management 
knowledge area gets your project requirements organized and structured appropriately. After 
they are in good shape, you can share them with key stakeholders for their review, 
understanding, and approval. This final task holds you responsible for communicating, 
obtaining agreement on, and getting approval of the requirements and designs. After receiving 
approval, business analysis work can proceed or actual solution construction can begin. 
Requirements communication tends to be iterative and ongoing in nature. It is usually done in 
parallel with most of the other business analysis tasks found in the BABOK® Guide. 

Requirements communication can be formal or informal in nature and includes conversations, 
notes, documents, presentations, and discussions with your stakeholders. 
Approval of requirements and designs may also be formal or informal. Predictive approaches 
usually perform approvals of requirements and designs at the end of project phases or during 
change control meetings. On the flip side, adaptive approaches approve requirements when 
construction and implementation of the solution meeting the requirements are ready to be done. 
Figure 4.6summarizes the inputs, outputs, techniques, and associated tasks for effectively 
communicating your project requirements. 
 
Figure 4.6 Task summary: Approve requirements.