Potential Value There is no reason to transition to a future state if no value is added to the 
enterprise as a result of the change. For the purpose of comparison, the value should be 
compared to the “do nothing” option. The BABOK® Guide defines the potential value of the 
future state as “the net benefit of the solution after operating costs are accounted for.” Potential 
value is a key component of the business case justifying the proposed change 
 
There are a number of techniques that you can use when assessing your organization’s current 
capabilities relative to a new business need. You can almost always use benchmarking and 
market analysis or SWOT analysis to help you define the future state of things. Let’s take a 
look at those recommended techniques now. 

Recommended Technique: Benchmarking and Market Analysis  
Benchmarking and market analysis studies target using new and different methods, ideas, and 
tools to improve organizational performance. When conducting such a study, the business 
analyst compares their organization’s strategies, operations, and processes against the best-in-
class strategies, operations, and processes of their competitors and peers. After determining 
how other companies achieve superior performance, the organization can then propose projects 
to reproduce solutions that work elsewhere. 
 
Recommended Technique: SWOT Analysis  

Strengths, Weaknesses, Opportunities, and Threats (SWOT) analysis lets you look at the 
organization’s current capabilities relative to meeting a new business need. There are two 
dimensions to this analysis: the internal strengths and weaknesses of the organization and the 
external opportunities and negative threats that are in play. SWOT analysis is done using a 
matrix or a grid. Stakeholders brainstorm and complete each quadrant of the grid and then 
analyze the resulting data to make sure that the business need and its environment are well 
understood. Solutions for meeting the business need may then be proposed and considered 
 