5.3 Conduct Elicitation 
There are a number of ways to elicit requirements for your projects. The most common 
elicitation technique is a face-to-face meeting with one or more of your project stakeholders to 
gather information regarding their needs. However, elicited information doesn’t have to come 
directly from people. It can also come to you indirectly, based on your research and review of 
existing documents and other data. 
Stakeholders may collaborate during elicitation by participating in the actual elicitation activity 
or by researching, studying, and providing feedback on documents, systems, models, and 
interfaces related to the activity and its results. 
 
Figure 5.2 The inputs, outputs, techniques, and associated tasks used to conduct requirements 
elicitation 

Figure 5.2 Task summary: Conduct elicitation activity. 

Several key inputs, guidelines, and tools are needed when eliciting requirements information. 
The primary input to this task is the planning you did in the previous task when preparing for 
elicitation. Elicitation Activity Plan The elicitation activity plan defines both the logistics and 
scope of a specific elicitation activity. The logistics for the elicitation activity include the 
scheduled resources and the supporting materials. This plan was created by the Prepare for 
Elicitation task in the Elicitation and Collaboration knowledge area that we just covered in the 
previous section. 

There are additional inputs that may be used by business analysis tasks: guidelines and tools. 
Let’s take a look at the guidelines and tools that may also be used as inputs when conducting 
elicitation: Business Analysis Approach. The business analysis approach is a “one-stop shop” 
for the general strategy used to guide business analysis work on your project. The approach 
contains stakeholder information, any business analysis methodologies to be used, a high-level 
schedule, and the level of detail you will be looking for in your resulting requirements and 
designs. 

Existing Business Analysis Information Existing information should not be overlooked during 
your requirements elicitation efforts. This information ranges from existing project 
documentation to requirements development methods you can use to understanding the 
business. Stakeholder Engagement Approach This approach provides the business analyst with 
stakeholder preferences for collaboration and communication that may be helpful when 
eliciting information. 