Guidelines and tools are additional inputs that can also be used by business analysis tasks. Let’s 
take a closer look at the guidelines and tools that can also be used as inputs when confirming 
the elicitation results: 

Elicitation Activity Plan Elicitation activity plans are created as part of preparing for 
elicitation. They provide the business analyst with guidance regarding techniques to be applied, 
questions to be asked, and the general scope of a particular elicitation effort. 
Existing Business Analysis Information Existing business analysis information should not 
be overlooked during your requirements elicitation efforts. This information ranges from 
existing project documentation to previously elicited information and requirements to 
requirements development methods you can use. 

When confirming requirements information, the business analyst performs two elements of this 
task, which are as follows: 

 Comparing elicitation results against source information 
 Comparing elicitation results against other elicitation results 

Let’s step through each of these elements now: 
Comparing Elicitation Results Against Source Information Elicitation results can come 
from a number of sources, including existing documents and your project stakeholders. Many 
times, business analysts schedule follow-up meetings to review elicitation information for 
correctness and completion against one or more of these sources. Key stakeholders may also 
be asked to review and confirm elicitation results independently. 
Comparing Elicitation Results Against Other Elicitation Results Consistency is an attribute 
of well-formed and accurate requirements. To achieve consistent elicitation results that become 
confirmed requirements, business analysts often compare the results against the results of other 
elicitation activities. Differences are then collaboratively discussed and resolved with the 
stakeholders and the team. Comparisons can also be made to historical data or existing 
specifications or models. 