When managing stakeholder collaboration across the project life cycle, the business analyst 
performs several elements, including the following: 
 
 Gaining agreement on commitments 
 Monitoring stakeholder engagement 
 Collaborating 

Let’s step through each of these three elements now: 
Gaining Agreement on Commitments Business analysis activities typically require time and 
resource commitments from the stakeholders. These expectations are key parts of completing 
the business analysis work in a timely fashion. The terms and conditions of time and resource 
commitments should be discussed and negotiated as early as possible to avoid or minimize 
conflicts. Remember to use your negotiation, communication, and conflict resolution skills 
when managing stakeholder collaboration. 
Monitoring Stakeholder Engagement Monitoring participation and performance of 
stakeholders doing business analysis work is another important task for the business analyst. 
The right stakeholders need to participate on the right things in order for the work to be done 
correctly. Keeping stakeholders engaged and interested in the business analysis work is 
also essential. 
A number or risks come into play when stakeholders are involved in business analysis work. 
Stakeholders can be diverted to other work activities that are not part of your efforts. They can 
also provide low-quality business analysis information that impacts your requirements and 
designs. Confirmation and approval of elicitation results and other business analysis 
deliverables must be completed in a timely fashion. 
Collaborating Business analysts should encourage free flow of information, ideas, and 
innovations when working with stakeholders. Common sense tells us that stakeholders who 
feel that they are part of the team are typically more engaged with the work that is being done. 
Collaboration requires regular, frequent, bidirectional communication between the business 
analysis team and the stakeholders. This stakeholder “care and feeding” is an important part of 
the business analyst’s job. 
There are several techniques that you may choose to apply when managing stakeholder collab- 
oration. One technique that we recommend is collaborative games, an engaging way to get your 
stakeholders to work as a team. Let’s take a look at this recommended technique in greater 
detail. 