5.4 Communicate Business Analysis Information 
Much of the work that you perform as part of the Elicitation and Collaboration knowledge area 
gets your project requirements information elicited, organized, and structured appropriately. 
After the business analysis information is in good shape, don’t forget to share that information 
with key stakeholders for their review, understanding, and approval. This task holds you 
responsible for effectively communicating requirements to ensure stakeholder understanding. 
Communicating business analysis information tends to be bidirectional, iterative, and ongoing 
in nature. It is usually done in parallel with most of the other business analysis tasks found in 
the BABOK® Guide. Communication can be formal or informal in nature and includes 
conversations, notes, documents, presentations, and discussions with your stakeholders. 
Figure 5.5 summarizes the inputs, guidelines, tools, outputs, techniques, and associated tasks 
for effectively communicating business analysis information on your projects. 
 
Several key inputs are used when communicating business analysis information during a 
project. These inputs are usually produced by activities performed by other business analysis 
tasks. Let’s take a closer look at these inputs: 
Business Analysis Information The business analyst is responsible for determining which 
business analysis information needs to be communicated to and understood by the stakeholders. 
Information can be packaged and communicated to stakeholders at any point in the 
requirements development process. 
Stakeholder Engagement Approach The stakeholder engagement approach defines how to 
communicate about business analysis activities, elicited information, and deliverables with 
your stakeholders. Your focus is on the requirements development tasks and the resulting 
deliverables. 
There are additional inputs that may be used by business analysis tasks: guidelines and tools. 
Guidelines are descriptions of why and how a business analyst will undertake a task. Tools are 
methods for conducting a business analysis task or shaping a task output. Let’s take a look at 
the guidelines and tools that may also be used as inputs when communicating elicitation 
information: 
Business Analysis Approach The business analysis approach is a “one-stop shop” for the 
general strategy used to guide business analysis work on your project. The approach contains 
stakeholder information, any business analysis methodologies to be used, a high-level 
schedule, and the level of detail you will be looking for in your resulting requirements and 
designs. 
Information Management Approach This approach determines how business analysis 
information will be stored, packaged, and communicated to your stakeholders. 
Table 5.10 summarizes the inputs to the business analysis task of communicating requirements 
and lists the source of the input (if applicable). 
