Techniques to Consider 
Business Rules Analysis This technique can be used to trace business rules to the requirements 
that the business rules support. The technique also works in a different direction, tracing 
business rules that support requirements. 
Functional Decomposition Break down solution scope into smaller components for 
requirements allocation. Requirements allocation assigns requirements to be implemented by 
a specific solution component or components. Functional decomposition is also used to trace 
high-level components to lower-level components.  

Process Modelling Process models visually show the future state process. These models allow 
the business analyst to trace requirements to that future state process.  
Scope Modelling Scope models visually depict the scope and allow the business analyst to 
trace requirements to the area of the scope that the requirement supports. 
Business analysts select which techniques they will apply as part of tracing requirements. There 
is no need to use all of these techniques, so choose wisely. Let’s take a look at the outputs result 
from applying your selected techniques to this task. 

Produce the Traced Requirements  

Traced requirements have clearly defined relationships to the other requirements and designs 
within the solution scope. Traceable requirements are used by the business analyst to identify 
the effects on other requirements of a requirements change or of a planned implementation. 
Once the relevant stakeholders approve the requirements or designs, they are used as inputs to 
another task in the Requirements Life Cycle Management knowledge area, defining the design 
options. Table 4.3 summarizes these outputs. 
 
Business analysts have the primary responsibility for creating and managing requirements 
traceability for their projects, particularly during requirements development activities. The 
project managers are also part of this effort, as they use traceable requirements to support the 
project-level change management activities. Several business analysis stakeholders also have 
a need for traceable requirements, including the following:
 
 Customers  
 Domain subject matter experts (SMEs) 
 End users  
 Implementation SMEs Operational support  
 Sponsor Suppliers  
 Testers 
