Let’s step through each of these five elements now: 

Understanding Elicitation Scope Successful business analysts don’t have time to waste 
eliciting information about topics that are outside of the scope of their defined effort. That said, 
it is important to understand the scope of the future solution as well as focus on the exact 
boundaries of the information you plan to elicit in a particular elicitation activity. 
Selecting Elicitation Techniques Typically, multiple techniques are used to elicit business 
analysis information. Business analysts are responsible for choosing the right techniques and 
applying those techniques correctly. When selecting elicitation techniques, look for techniques 
you have used in similar situations, techniques that are suited to the current situation, and the 
tasks necessary to use each selected technique properly. 

Planning Elicitation Logistics Be sure to plan the logistics of your elicitation session ahead 
of time. In addition to creating an agenda for the session, the BABOK® Guide recommends 
that you identify the goals for the activity and provide a list of participants and their roles. 
Participants will also want to know the session location, the session schedule, and the tools and 
techniques that will be used. 
Securing Supporting Materials Business analysts are responsible for identifying and 
procuring supporting materials needed for an elicitation activity. Required information may 
include specific people and what they know, or documented data about existing systems. There 
may be other elicitation results or analysis models from different facets of your project that are 
also needed. 

Preparing Stakeholders Stakeholder understanding and buy-in is essential to successful 
elicitation. Many times, stakeholders are asked to review supporting materials prior to the 
elicitation activity. It is helpful to make sure your stakeholders understand the techniques you 
are using and the outcome the group is seeking. 
There are several techniques that you can choose to apply when preparing to elicit project 
requirements. One technique that we recommend is brainstorming, a creative, structured way 
to get everyone’s brain contributing ideas as you plan what needs to take place and who needs 
to be involved. Let’s take a look at this recommended technique in greater detail. 