Risk Analysis and Management Risk analysis and management is used to identify and 
manage stakeholder-related risks, such as participation, involvement, or engagement. 
Stakeholder List, Map, or Personas This technique provides the business analyst with a list 
of the stakeholders who are available to participate in business analysis work. 
Once you have selected and applied one or more techniques as part of your efforts, you are 
ready to get your stakeholders engaged with your project efforts. We will discuss that next. 

Achieving Stakeholder Engagement 
The BABOK® Guide defines stakeholder engagement as “willingness from stakeholders to 
engage in business analysis activities and interact with the business analyst when necessary.” 
All types of stakeholders may be involved with the business analysis activities on a project at 
some point in time. Managing these stakeholder resources effectively and keeping them 
engaged with the work falls on the business analyst’s shoulders. This task output is fairly 
subjective. You will be tasked with getting the stakeholders to “play pretty” and be a part of 
things. All stakeholders on your project may collaborate with the business analyst, project team 
members, and one another while dealing with a proposed change. 
Now let’s wrap up our review of the Elicitation and Collaboration knowledge area. 
 
5.5 How This Applies to Your Projects 
In this chapter, you stepped through tasks guiding you in eliciting information for your project’s 
business, stakeholder, solution, and transition requirements. Remember that requirements 
elicitation work is iterative and incremental in nature. One of the biggest challenges that you 

will encounter in your projects is making sure that you ask the stakeholders all of the right 
questions. After all, the goal is to get the right information so you can develop correct and 
complete requirements defining what capabilities the new solution has to offer. Engaging and 
collaborating with your stakeholders is another essential component of a successful project. 
Many types of questions are used in gathering business analysis information. Using all types 
of questions as part of your elicitation activities allows you to organize and discover what the 
stakeholders need and want within the scope of the proposed solution. Remember, skilled 
requirements analysts are experts at asking questions, especially when they don’t know the 
answers. These are the types of questions a skilled business analyst should be proficient with: 

 Research questions 
 Detailed questions 
 Directive questions 
 Meta questions 
 Open-ended questions 
 Closed-ended questions