3.10 Outputs: Define change strategy. 

The business analyst and project manager are jointly responsible for managing change and 
planning activities to complete a change. The project manager owns the project scope, which 
is the work necessary to deliver the solution scope. Detailed release planning and component 
allocation activities must integrate into the project plan that drives getting the change and its 
resulting solution defined in more detail, designed, and deployed. The implementation 
SMEmay also be of assistance in allocating capabilities to solution components. After the task 
is complete, the sponsor will approve the solution scope. 

Numerous other stakeholders may be involved in defining the change strategy and solution 
scope. They include the following: 

 Customer 
 Domain SME 
 End user 
 Operational support 
 Regulator 
 Supplier 
 Tester
 
3.6 How This Applies to Your Projects 
 
In this chapter, you stepped through defining the business requirements, current state, future 
state, change strategy, and solution scope for a project and using this data to seek the sponsor’s 
approval to get that project underway. Performing business analysis usually starts up at 30,000 
feet on most projects. Working on complex projects in which the initial feasibility studies and 
business case development work are a project themselves can be enjoyable. It is always fun to 
figure out the scope of what needs to be done and to justify why an organization needs to do it. 
Understanding and defining the big picture is an important piece of a project’s controlled start, 
and every business analyst should be able to perform this work well. 
It should be no surprise that projects are successful when what is to be accomplished is clearly 
stated and agreed upon. The strategy analysis tasks and their resulting outputs set the 
framework for the subsequent requirements development activities. The change strategy and 
solution scope are defined by negotiation between key business and management level 
stakeholders. Solution scope definition restricts the detailed requirements development 
downstream and allows for informed decision making and prioritization throughout the project 
life cycle. 
Many different project documents can be used to define the scope of a business problem or 
need and justify why an organization should do something about it. Here is a short list of 
possible candidates:
 
 Business case 
 Business requirements document (BRD) 
 Project brief 
 Feasibility study 
 Opportunity assessment 
 Project charter 
 Operational concept description (OCD) 
 Scope definition document (SDD) 

No matter which document template you use or what name you give that document, it should 
contain most, if not all, of the information that the business analyst builds and collects as part 
of their Strategy Analysis tasks. This includes the business need, the justification and rationale 
for proceeding with the effort, key stakeholders involved with these business-focused efforts, 
any business constraints, and an initial risk assessment. 

Most organizations have their own templates, examples, and specific requirements for writing 
a business case, scope definition, and/or business requirements document. Be sure to check 
with your project manager to see what is commonly used or required for your projects when 
you are defining the big picture. Often, document templates provide a valuable road map for 
what information you will need to gather and analyze during your Strategy Analysis work. 
 