2.9 How This Applies to Your Projects 

In this chapter, you stepped through planning a serious set of business analysis approaches for 
a project. Performing business analysis work is much more straightforward if the team takes 
the time to think about and plan what they are going to do and how they are going about doing 
it before they start doing the work. Working on projects where the value of business analysis 
work is discounted can result in little to no planning for the business analysis activities and 
deliverables for the project. You will have to scramble and rely on your business analysis 
experience to get the work done if you are not prepared for everything that is needed. This is 
not the way to do good work. Planning business analysis activities is an important piece of the 
overall project planning, and it should be done for every business analysis effort.  
 
The Shewhart “plan–do–check–act” cycle (Figure 2.7) is a four-step model that forms the basis 
for all of the tasks and elements found in the BABOK® Guide. The concept that “we plan prior 
to doing the work and measure what has been done” applies throughout the activities in the 
Business Analysis Planning and Monitoring knowledge area. The business analysis team plans 
project or project phase activities, deliverables, and approaches prior to actually doing the 
work. After the work is done, the business analysis team looks at the results to see what was 
learned and how well the work was performed. Anything that requires improvement is 
addressed prior to the next round. Things that worked well are repeated and used in subsequent 
efforts. 
 
Figure 2.7 The Shewhart cycle 
 
A core set of business analysis planning and documentation should be required for all projects 
regardless of project size or type. For complex projects, business analysts may choose to use 
the full set of BABOK® Guide deliverables across the six knowledge areas plus any project or 
technical documents that are required. In some cases, the business analysis deliverables may 
be combined and simplified for change-driven or straightforward project efforts. Business 
analysis documents should always be consolidated where feasible. 