2.3 Plan the Business Analysis Approach 
 
Plan the Business Analysis Approach 
 
The first task in the Business Analysis Planning and Monitoring knowledge area is to define 
and plan the business analysis approach. There are many ways to approach business analysis 
work on a project. To get the business analysis work started on a project, you must first decide 
how to go about doing it. The overall business analysis process for performing work consists 
of the following: 
 
•Deciding how and when business analysis tasks will be performed  
•Agreeing on the techniques to be used  
•Defining the deliverables to be produced 
 
Figure 2.1 summarizes the inputs, outputs, techniques, and associated tasks for planning the 
business analysis approach for a project. The best business analysis approaches are based on 
the organizational environment where they will be used. The business analysis approach is a 
subset of the overall project approach. It defines the set of processes, templates, guidelines, 
tools, techniques, and activities used to perform business analysis on a project or initiative. 
When documented, the business analysis approach creates a formalized and repeatable 
methodology. In comparison, the project approach describes the way all of the project work 
will be approached. 
 
Figure 2.1 Task summary: Plan business analysis approach. 

Predictive vs. Adaptive Approaches  
 
When you define and plan your business analysis approach, you must decide where it falls 
across the spectrum of predictive approaches and adaptive approaches. Predictive planning 
approaches focus on ensuring that the solution is fully defined before its implementation 
begins. Adaptive planning approaches are used on projects where many small iterations are 
defined and developed en route to the final result. Hybrid approaches combine aspects of both 
types and may require additional tailoring and scaling of the business analysis approach to 
combine them well. Most organizational environments and their management teams are likely 
to be more comfortable with one approach over the other. 