Chapter 2: Controlled Start: Business Analysis Planning and Monitoring 

Introduction 
Now that you are more familiar with the discipline of business analysis, you are ready to 
address planning the business analysis activities for a project or initiative. You have learned 
the basic pieces of the discipline: the underlying competencies of the business analyst, the key 
business analysis stakeholders, the framework of the BACCM™, and the BABOK® Guide 
requirements classification scheme. Using this foundation, you will begin to apply business 
analysis tasks and techniques as we walk through the first knowledge area, Business Analysis 
Planning and Monitoring. The first skills you will put to use are analytical thinking and problem 
solving. After all, before you can begin a project or project phase, it’s a good idea to know 
what work you need to do. To achieve a controlled start to a project or project phase, you must 
be methodical and consistent in your planning, definition, and decisions. This is the first step 
in planning the business analysis work effort for a project. Figure out what needs to be done, 
how you will go about doing it, exactly who needs to be involved with the work, and how 
involved they should be. 

2.1 Business Analysis Planning and Monitoring 
The Business Analysis Planning and Monitoring knowledge area focuses on laying the 
groundwork for successfully defining, planning, and completing the business analysis work for 
a project. The business analyst builds the business analysis work plan by executing the 
knowledge area tasks. The business analysis tasks that the business analyst puts in the work 
plan depend on what needs to be done for the time period of the planning effort. Typically, the 
business analysis work activities become part of the project management plan. 
To focus on what is important to the business analyst early in the business analysis efforts, let’s 
consider the tasks of this knowledge area with the framework of the BACCM™. The business 
analyst needs to keep an eye on their work at this point in time relative to the six concepts 
contained in the framework: changes, needs, solutions, stakeholders, values, and contexts. 

Table 2.1 lists these responsibilities. 

The tasks in this planning-focused knowledge area generate several key business analysis 
deliverables:  
•Business analysis approach  
•Stakeholder engagement approach  
•Governance approach  
•Information management approach  
•Business analysis performance assessment 
 