When prioritizing the requirements on your projects, you should perform several task elements, 
such as the following: 

 Defining the basis or criteria for prioritizing requirements  
 Considering challenges of prioritization 
 Address continual prioritization 

Defining the Basis for Requirements Prioritization A number of prioritization schemes and 
approaches can be used, such as prioritization based on looking at which requirements should 
be implemented first in a solution. The BABOK® Guide provides you with eight factors to 
consider when determining the basis for requirements prioritization, either standalone or in 
combination with one another. Table 4.7 summarizes these eight factors for prioritizing 
requirements. 

Table 4.7 Requirements prioritization factors 

Considering Prioritization Challenges Facilitating a session to prioritize requirements can 
be quite challenging. There is a tendency for stakeholders to issue nonnegotiable demands 
relative to the importance of their requirements, such as ranking all of their requirements as the 
most important requirements of the bunch (whether they really are or not). The problems aren’t 
confined to the stakeholders, though. It is not unusual to find the solution development team 
trying to influence the prioritization results, perhaps because they have some interesting 
technology they would like to implement. The facilitator must recognize and focus on the need 
for trade-off decision making and compromise in a session that takes on these characteristics. 
Continual Prioritization Requirements priorities can be a moving target over time as more 
information becomes available. As the requirements are defined in greater detail, initial 
assigned priorities may need to be revisited and revised. The basis for prioritization also 
changes over time. Initial priorities based upon business benefits may be reprioritized based 
upon technical constraints and the order of implementation or the cost of the requirements. 
Continual Prioritization Requirements priorities can be a moving target over time as more 
information becomes available. As the requirements are defined in greater detail, initial 
assigned priorities may need to be revisited and revised. The basis for prioritization also 
changes over time. Initial priorities based upon business benefits may be reprioritized based 
upon technical constraints and the order of implementation or the cost of the requirements. 