Chapter 4: Overarching Tasks: Requirements Life Cycle Management 
 
Introduction 
It isn’t enough to just plan the business analysis activities and get the work done. Managing 
and maintaining information about the requirements being developed across the project life 
cycle is the responsibility of the business analyst (that means you). If you can’t manage the 
requirements from inception to retirement, how will you know whether those requirements are 
implemented in the solution? 
The overarching set of requirements life cycle management tasks is found in the Requirements 
Life Cycle Management knowledge area. The tasks in this knowledge area focus on ensuring 
that the right people are involved with developing, understanding, and approving the business, 
stakeholder, and solution requirements, as well as the designs. In addition, the requirements 
themselves must be accessible and managed during the requirements development work and 
throughout the project life cycle. 

4.1 Requirements Life Cycle Management 
The Requirements Life Cycle Management knowledge area targets managing and sharing the 
project requirements and designs with the project stakeholders. This knowledge area is also 
where the business analysis team deals with the challenges of managing changing requirements 
and designs across the project life cycle and ensuring that the solution implements them. 
Remember, for the business analyst, requirements are focused on the need, while designs are 
focused on the solution. Requirements and designs can change while they are being developed 
and after they have been approved and base lined. 
To focus on what is important to the business analyst across the life cycle of their business 
analysis efforts, let’s consider the tasks of this knowledge area with the framework of the 
BAACM™. Business analysts need to keep an eye on their work relative to the six concepts 
contained in the framework: changes, needs, solutions, stakeholders, values, and contexts. 
Table 4.1 describes these responsibilities. 