Techniques to Consider 
Brainstorming As part of business analysis planning, decomposing and understanding the 
business analysis tasks and deliverables sufficiently enables effective planning. 
 
Document Analysis Be sure to review existing governance processes or templates used for 
business analysis activities or for the overall project. The existing processes may have an 
impact on how to define and perform governance as part of your project. 
 
Interviews The business analysis team may use interviews as a method to identify and select 
individuals who are responsible for business analysis decision-making, change control, 
prioritization, or approval activities. 
 
Item Tracking For many business analysts, item tracking is synonymous with issue 
management. Be sure to keep track of your issues while planning your governance approach 
 
Lessons Learned There is no need to reinvent the wheel or to make the same mistakes when 
defining business analysis governance. Effective business analysts use lessons learned on 
previous projects to keep them on track with their own planning efforts. 
 
Organizational Modelling Organizational models show the relationships between 
stakeholders and the roles and responsibilities the stakeholders have within the organization. 
 
Create the Business Analysis Governance Approach 

The business analysis governance approach should resemble the project governance approach 
of which it is a part. The level of detail in these plans depends on several factors, including the 
business analysis approach for the effort and the overall methodology being used for planning. 
According to the BABOK® Guide, the recommended content of a business analysis 
governance approach answers questions such as these: 
 
•Who has responsibility and authority to make decisions about business analysis work? 
•Who sets priorities for business analysis information? 
•Who approves changes to business analysis information? 
•Who defines the change management process for requirements and designs? 
 
Once the business analysis governance approach is complete, it is used as input by a number 
of other business analysis tasks summarized in Table 2.10. They are picked up and applied by 
several Business Analysis Planning and Monitoring and Requirements Life Cycle Management 
knowledge area tasks. 
 
Table 2.10 Output: Plan business analysis governance. 
 
Any business analysis stakeholder can be involved with planning the business analysis 
governance for a project. Of particular interest is the verification and validation of key business 
analysis deliverables across the project life cycle. It is essential that the project manager 
participates in this effort because the business analysis plans are part of the higher-level project 
plan. Key business analysis stakeholders may provide information or use the business analysis 
plans for their own planning efforts. Stakeholders involved with planning activities may 
include the following: 
 
•Project manager  
•Regulator  
•The sponsor 
 
The business analysis governance approach augments the stakeholder engagement approach 
by identifying specific stakeholder responsibilities for decisions about business analysis work 
and change control. The governance approach also defines the process to manage requirements 
and design changes across the initiative. 