Chapter 1: Foundation Concepts 

Introduction 
This chapter lays the foundation for navigating and understanding the content and intent of A 
Guide to the Business Analysis Body of Knowledge® (BABOK® Guide). It is our high-level 
look at what it means to be a business analyst and how to successfully perform business analysis 
work. Business analysts can be found in all facets of an organization—projects, programs, 
strategic planning, operations, or other initiatives. Although the examples in this chapter use 
projects and the project life cycle to step through the discipline, remember that business 
analysts do not have to be members of a project team to do their jobs. They can work almost 
anywhere. The set of generally accepted best practices defined by the BABOK® Guide 
provides a business analysis framework defining areas of knowledge, associated activities and 
tasks, and the skills required to perform them. The scope of this standard covers pre-project 
activities, the full project life cycle, and the final product’s operational life. 

1.1 What Is Business Analysis? 
Let’s start with an example of how difficult it can be to do business analysis work when you 
are not certain where to begin. New business analysts start their careers in a number of ways. 
In the past, it was not uncommon for young software engineers to transition into the business 
side of an organization when their manager called them into their office, saying, “We are short-
staffed, and I need you to figure out what the users need this new software application to do.” 
The fledging business analyst needed to discover who to talk to, what to ask, how to ask, and 
how to document the information that they discovered in a way that made sense to the 
development team and to the business.  
 
This was not an easy task the first time around! In this situation, performing basic business 
analysis work took a lot longer than it seemed like it should. These unprepared rookie business 
analysts had great difficulty deciding exactly how to get started. There was no process in place 
to guide them and no one available to point them in the right direction. They found themselves 
longing to go back to their cubicles and just write some more code. Luckily, there is no need 
for business analysts to feel this way today. There are standards, books (like this one), websites, 
blogs, and tons of experienced folks out there to mentor and guide business analysts in getting 
the job done right.  
 
Business analysis is the glue that holds successful organizations together. It is a distinct 
discipline focusing on identifying business needs, problems, and opportunities, and on 
determining the appropriate solutions to address them. The resulting projects and initiatives 
may focus on systems development, process improvement, organizational change, or some 
combination of the three. Business analysis touches all levels of an organization: strategic, 
tactical, and operational. Business analysts participate across the project and the product life 
cycles as they look at all aspects of an organization’s enterprise architecture, stakeholder needs, 
business processes, software, and hardware. 
 