The Business Analyst’s Role  
 
The linchpin of successful business analysis is the business analyst performing the actual work. 
Their involvement in defining and validating solutions that address key business needs and 
goals is essential to both project and business success. According to the BABOK® Guide, “a 
business analyst is any person who performs business analysis tasks described in the BABOK® 
Guide, no matter their job title or organizational role.” Business analysts work as liaisons 
among stakeholders in order to understand the structure, policies, and operations of an 
organization, and to recommend solutions that enable the organization to achieve its goals. So, 
what exactly is the job description for the business analyst? There have been many job postings 
lately that came straight from the BABOK® Guide role definition. That is a good sign. The 
adoption and integration of these principles as best practices in the corporate environment will 
lead to stronger business analysis process, better business analysts, and more credibility and 
consistency in the role of business analysts today. Here is a short list of the business analyst’s 
job responsibilities from the BABOK® Guide 
 
•Discovers, synthesizes, and analyzes enterprise information  
•Understands enterprise problems, opportunities, and goals in the context of the requirements 
•Analyzes needs and solutions  
•Devises strategies and drives change Facilitates stakeholder collaboration 
 
Essential Skills of Effective Business Analysts  
 
Business analysts must possess a wide spectrum of skills and knowledge. Being a technical 
expert in a particular area does not guarantee success as a business analyst on a project. In 
addition to the necessary business, technical, and domain knowledge, the business analyst 
should have management, interpersonal, business, and structured problem-solving skills. 
 
The Business Analyst and the Project Manager  
 
There is much buzz about the potential for overlap and conflict between the project manager 
and the business analyst. Interestingly enough, many project managers perform business 
analysis work early in their projects—developing feasibility studies, business cases, scope 
statements, and business-level requirements as part of project selection, initiation, and scope 
definition. Many project managers were part of the business analysis team earlier in their 
careers. As a result, many project managers have business analysis skills to complement and  
overlap their project management skill set.  
 
The project manager’s responsibilities differ from the responsibilities of the business analyst 
in several ways. The project manager focuses on meeting the project objectives. They initiate, 
plan, and manage the project. The project manager makes sure the project team delivers a 
solution that meets requirements, the acceptance criteria, and the customer’s quality 
expectations. The project manager juggles the many constraints present on a project, such as 
scope, budget, schedule, resources, quality, and risk. On a large project, the business analysis 
team is only one part of the project resources the project manager is managing. 
 
The business analyst and the project manager typically work closely together on projects and 
must maintain good communications. However, there is potential for the project manager and 
the business analyst to be in conflict with one another. The business analyst works with key 
stakeholders to understand the structure, policies, and operations of an organization and to 
recommend solutions. The project manager focuses on planning and managing the project to 
achieve the project objectives and deliver those solutions to the stakeholders. Where are they 
going to step on each other’s toes? There are two key areas for conflict: stakeholder 
communication and planning.