2.6 Plan Business Analysis Information Management 
When you ask people what business analysts do, the first answer you usually hear is that 
business analysts write requirements. That’s true. However, developing and managing 
requirements and design information on a project entails significantly more than just writing 
skills. The business analysis team must define their process for developing requirements and 
designs. They must consider how they will approach requirements and design traceability, 
reuse, requirements storage and access, and the requirements attributes to be applied. This 
information is formally documented in the business analysis information management 
approach. Once the business analysis team establishes the information management approach 
for a project, the approach is not expected to change significantly across the project life cycle. 
However, it should be revisited at each phase of the project to ensure that it is being followed 
and that no changes are required for the work that will be started or based on business analysis 
performance to date. To plan for information management, the business analyst must 
understand the organizational process needs and objectives that apply to the project. These 
needs and objectives may include compatibility with other organizational processes, 
constraints on time-to-market, regulatory and governance framework compliance, a desire to 
evaluate new approaches to solution development, or other business objectives. 
 
Figure 2.5 summarizes the tasks required for Plan Business Analysis Information 
Management. 
 
Figure 2.5 Task summary: Plan business analysis information management 

Now let’s get to the task at hand, which is planning how to address business analysis 
information management. Every task has inputs, outputs, elements, guidelines, tools, and 
techniques. This task is no exception. Remember that task inputs are either informational in 
nature or outputs produced by other business analysis tasks. Inputs are acted on by the task 
elements and techniques, producing one or more task outputs. Let’s take a look at the three task 
inputs used when planning a business analysis information management approach: 
 
Business Analysis Approach The information management approach should align with the 
business analysis approach for your initiative, as well as aligning with the other approaches 
defined in this knowledge area. 
 
Governance Approach The governance approach identifies how to deal with changes, 
decisions, approvals, and priorities for requirements and designs.  
 
Stakeholder Engagement Approach The defined stakeholder collaboration and 
communication needs guide specific business analysis information needs. Basically, you must 
define what you need to know and who you need to get information from. Then, go out and get 
that information. 