1.4 Understanding How This Applies to Your Projects 
As you can tell from this first chapter, successful business analysts bring a serious mixture of 
skills, dedication, and knowledge to their projects in order to solve business problems and meet 
business needs. It isn’t just the ability to execute the business analysis techniques that gets the 
job done, either. Effective business analysts must also possess excellent interpersonal skills as 
well as a strong set of business and technical knowledge. 
 
Different business analysis skills, techniques, and knowledge are used at different places in the 
project life cycle. To implement the contents of the BABOK® Guide on your projects, you will 
need to map what needs to be done to when you would like to do it. If you have an existing 
project life cycle in your organization, this is the time to dust it off and use it. If not, it’s time 
to build one. Our generic project life cycle consists of three parts: controlled start, controlled 
middle, and controlled end. When you think about your projects, one way to keep track of what 
needs to be done is to know “when and where” you are in this simple model (see Figure 1.4). 
 
Figure 1.4 Mapping the BABOK® Guide to a generic life cycle 
 
Controlled Start The controlled start to a project includes the pre-project activities where you  
determine whether this is a viable and worthwhile project for the business. It also covers the 
project initiation, where business analysts do more detailed planning for the overall project and 
for the next detailed project stage. At the end of the controlled start activities, the business 
analyst should have project scope finalized, business justification in place, and the high-level 
project plan built.  
 
Controlled Middle The controlled middle of a project is where the technical work gets done, 
one stage or phase at a time. The project manager uses the plan to measure and monitor project 
performance and to control what takes place. This is management by walking around (MBWA), 
where business analysts are into everything—regular status, informal conversations, checking 
the health of the project, dealing with stakeholders, forecasting future performance, and dealing 
with issues and risks. 

Controlled End A controlled end to a project is when the business analyst wraps up a job well 
done. This can also take place if the project was prematurely terminated for one reason or 
another (ideally a rare event). The business analyst takes stock of achievements, reports on the 
effort, ensures objectives and acceptance criteria are met, and transitions the final product of 
the project into its operational life.  
  
1.5 Perspectives on Business Analysis 
Business analysts find themselves working on many types of projects. You may find yourself 
developing requirements for a back-office IT system or defining standard operating procedures 
within a research laboratory. The BABOK® Guide defines five common points of view for 
business analysis work. 

•Agile  
•Business intelligence  
•Information technology  
•Business architecture  
•Business process management 