4.5 How This Applies to Your Projects 
In this chapter, you stepped through tasks that help you to manage changing requirements 
across the requirements life cycle. One of the biggest challenges that you encounter on your 
projects is managing changing requirements. Sometimes it takes no more than five minutes 
after requirements sign-off to start hearing the inevitable changes creeping back into what was 
just approved. This can be caused by a number of factors. 

 Increased level of interaction and information sharing both within and between systems  
 Lack of requirements traceability yielding poor understanding of requirements 
dependencies  
 Changes in business plans and objectives that create a high-level focus shift and impact 
your existing requirements  
 Changes in technology, law, policies, regulations, or directives 
 Boundary conditions and constraints that move, causing your requirements to change 
as well  
 Customers and users who change their minds about what they need  
 Developers who add their own special twists, creating undocumented features that 
come back to haunt us 

Configuration management (CM) is the key to managing changing requirements. Effective 
issue and change management is possible only if it is supported by CM. Configuration 
management is a technical and administrative activity focusing on creating, maintaining, and 
controlling change to the solution and its components (a configuration) throughout that 
solution’s life cycle. 
All organizations should have a configuration management strategy for their projects. The 
strategy can be developed on a project-by-project basis or be applied to all projects that the 
organization undertakes. The configuration management strategy identifies how, and by whom, 
the project’s products will be controlled and protected. It answers these questions: 
How and where will the project’s products be stored? 
What storage and retrieval security will be put in place? 
How will the products and the various versions and variants of these products be identified? 
How will changes to products be controlled? Where does responsibility for configuration 
management lie? 
A configuration management strategy is typically derived from a number of information 
sources, including any corporate configuration management, quality management, or 
information management systems and strategies. Typically, the strategy is based on either the 
user’s or the supplier’s quality management systems and is targeted to support meeting the 
customer’s quality expectations. The specific needs of the solution and the environment where 
it is being developed also plays a part in this strategy, as does the project management team 
structure with its identified configuration management roles and responsibilities. 
To control and protect your solution and its assets, use a configuration management strategy 
focusing on the solution and the solution components of your project. This is the best way to 
provide a framework ensuring that your solution deliverables are identified, tracked, and 
protected. The five generic steps are illustrated in Figure 4.7: Plan, Identify, Control, Account, 
Verify. Let’s take a quick look at each step. 

Plan Configuration management planning defines how you will address storage, retrieval, 
security, version control, and change control for the solution deliverables. The timing for these 
activities should also be defined. 
Identify Identification encompasses specifying and identifying all components of the final 
product. This is where you would create unique identifiers and records for each solution 
component. 
Control Configuration control invokes the ability to approve and baseline deliverables. 
Changes to approved products can be made only by following the formal change procedure for 
the solution. 
Account Status accounting is the recording and reporting of all current and historical data 
concerning each deliverable or configuration. 
Verify The project’s configuration management system should provide you with the ability to 
audit actual deliverables against information recorded about those deliverables in the system, 
such as current status. 