Additional Techniques to Consider  
The BABOK® Guide lists some additional techniques that can be used when analyzing the 
current state for your project. They are summarized for you here: 
 
Benchmarking and Market Analysis Benchmarking is done to compare organizational 
practices against the best-in-class practices from competitors, the government, or industry 
associations. Market analysis researches customers to determine what those customers need or 
want. Both techniques allow you to identify opportunities for improvement in the current state.  
Business Capability Analysis This technique allows a business analyst to define the current 
business capabilities of the enterprise, identify performance gaps, and prioritize those gaps and 
capabilities relative to the value and risk of a business need. Business Model Canvas A 
business model canvas describes how an enterprise creates, delivers, and captures value to and 
from its customers. This technique provides an understanding of the value proposition between 
the enterprise and its customers as well as the critical factors in delivering that value and the 
resulting cost and revenue streams.  

Business Cases Many organizations use business cases to justify a course of action based upon 
the benefits of a proposed solution. When analyzing the current state, be sure to capture 
information regarding the business need and the opportunity that need presents to the 
enterprise.  
Concept Modelling Business analysts need to capture and organize the key terms and concepts 
to build a “business vocabulary” or glossary for people to use when discussing the current state 
and the proposed change.  
Data Mining Data mining looks for useful patterns and insights in enterprise data, such as 
information on the performance of the enterprise. This can improve the decision-making 
process relative to a business need.  
Financial Analysis Financial analysis is used to understand the profitability of the current state 
and to evaluate the enterprise’s financial capability to deliver change. Focus Groups This 
group technique allows a business analyst to bring together a selected group of key stakeholders 
to identify and discuss problems and opportunities as part of analyzing the current state.  
Functional Decomposition Functional decomposition allows a business analyst to break down 
the complex systems and relationships that make up the current state into smaller, easily 
understood pieces and parts.  