Interviews It is essential that the business analysts talk with stakeholders to understand the 
current state and any stakeholder needs relative to that current state.  
Item Tracking This technique allows issue tracking and management relative to the 
description of the enterprise’s current state. We often refer to this key technique as “issue 
management” on our projects. Lessons Learned Looking at failures and opportunities from past 
change initiatives can assist with facilitating a proposed change. Lessons learned may also 
highlight and drive a new business need for process improvement in one or more areas. Metrics 
and Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) Metrics and KPIs are used to assess the performance 
of the current state of the enterprise. Be sure to look for measurable ways to assess performance. 
 
Mind Mapping Mind mapping is a creative way of note taking that captures ideas and 
information in a visual and nonlinear way relative to the current state. This technique is used 
to explore relevant aspects of the current state and to understand the factors affecting the 
business need. 
Observation Observation allows a business analyst to gain insight into needs by viewing how 
things are done within the current state. Often, observation also helps business analysts 
discover new stakeholder and business needs based upon what they observe.  
Organizational Modelling Remember those hierarchical organization charts with the 
rectangles and the lines connecting each level of job title? When analyzing the current state, 
many business analysts use this technique to describe the roles, responsibilities, and reporting 
structures that currently exist within the organization. 
Process Analysis Process analysis identifies opportunities to improve the current state by 
looking at the efficiency and effectiveness of a particular process that is part of the current 
state. Process Modelling This graphical modelling technique describes how work occurs in the 
current state and the current solution. 
Risk Analysis and Management Risk analysis and management identifies areas of risk or 
uncertainty that could negatively impact the current state. This technique also analyzes and 
evaluates those uncertainties to develop responses to deal with the risks.  
Scope Modelling Ever been asked what is in scope and what is out of scope for your project? 
Scope models are used to define the boundaries of the current state description.  
Survey or Questionnaire This elicitation technique helps business analysts gain an 
understanding of the current state from a large, varied, or disparate group of stakeholders in a 
relatively short period of time. 