Designs Designs are usable representations of solutions. They can be traced to all types of 
requirements, to solution components, and to other work products.  
There are additional inputs that can be used by business analysis tasks: guidelines and tools. 
Guidelines are essentially instructions or descriptions of why and how a business analyst will 
undertake a task. Tools, on the other hand, are methods for conducting a business analysis task 
or shaping a task output. These are the guidelines and tools that can also be used as inputs when 
tracing requirements: 
Domain Knowledge Tracing requirements leverages business knowledge and expertise from 
stakeholders in the business domain being addressed. This knowledge enables business 
analysts to put together the pieces of the traceability puzzle correctly. 
Information Management Approach The business analysis team’s traceability decisions 
should be based on the information management approach. This approach addresses and 
defines requirements traceability before any actual requirements development has begun. 
Legal/Regulatory Information Sometimes the business analyst must incorporate legislative 
or regulatory rules into their project’s traceability approach. 
Requirements Management Tools/Repository The tools and storage for requirements and 
requirement traceability must be in place prior to commencing requirements development. 
Based upon the complexity of the project and the degree of traceability formality, these tools 
can range from simple spreadsheets to complex requirements management tools. 
Table 4.2 summarizes the inputs, guidelines, and tools for this task and lists the source of the 
input (if applicable). 

Business analysts need to step through three essential elements to create and manage 
requirements traceability for their projects. These elements are:
 
 Deciding the level of formality  
 Selecting the relationships to be traced 
 Documenting and maintaining the traced requirements 
Let’s step through each of these three elements now. 
Deciding the Level of Formality The challenge for business analysts and project teams is 
deciding what requirements and designs need to be traced and what can be skipped. 
Traceability can be built and maintained at many levels within a given set of project 
requirements. Traceability usually begins with tracing the current requirements under 
development to the higher-level requirements from which they are being derived. For example, 
when business analysts build the solution requirements for a project, the first aspect of 
traceability that they address is derivation from the stakeholder requirements that preceded the 
solution requirements. 
