Business Goals and Objectives Early in a project or before a project even begins, business 
analysts are asked to analyze the organization’s business goals and objectives as part of 
defining a particular business need and the desired future state. This strategic information is 
usually located in the organization’s strategic plan, starting with the organization’s mission, 
vision, and values 

Many people mistake the vision statement for the mission statement. 
Vision The vision describes a future identity. 
Mission The mission describes why that future identity will be achieved. 
Values Values provide boundaries for how an organization defines its mission in order to 
achieve its vision. 

Figure 3.4 depicts the levels of detail and the relationships ranging from an organization’s 
vision, mission, and strategic plan to the projects being done in order to achieve those strategic 
goals. 
 
Business goals are strategic statements describing changes that the organization seeks to 
establish or current conditions that the organization wants to maintain. A single business goal 
may be subdivided into one or more focus areas, such as customer satisfaction, operational 
excellence, or business growth. 
 
Business goals must be decomposed into a set of more quantitative business objectives. 
Business objectives state the predetermined results toward which effort is directed, such as a 
strategic position to be attained or a purpose to be achieved. Experienced business analysts 
make sure that their business objectives are SMART (Specific, Measurable, Achievable, 
Relevant, and Time-Bound) 
 
Scope of Solution Space The business analyst must also describe the range of solutions and 
the options that will be considered to achieve the desired future state. The target is reaching a 
desired outcome that delivers the most value and can be implemented to address the business 
need. Do not confuse the desired outcome with a solution; they are not the same thing. Solution 
options to achieve the future state will be evaluated relative to the desired outcome to make 
sure they can deliver the business benefits that are expected. 
 
Constraints Constraints limit the current state as well as the planned future state. Constraints 
may not change as part of the solution. Constraints come in many flavors, such as budget, time, 
technology, infrastructure, policy, resources, team member skills, and regulations. 
 