Dealing with Key Stakeholders  
 
There is no project without stakeholders. Stakeholders have a vested interest in the project and 
its outcome, and they are the major source of requirements, constraints, and assumptions for 
the business analyst. Remember that stakeholder roles are like hats—one person may wear 
multiple hats and fill more than one role on a project.  
 
There are a number of generic stakeholders who will interact with the business analyst across 
the project life cycle. While the list in Table 1.1 doesn’t cover every possible role, it is a good 
starting point for who should be involved with your business analysis activities. Many 
organizations have different names for the same role, so don’t get excited if these are not the 
generic stakeholder roles with which you are familiar. In addition to the business analyst, there 
are a number of key stakeholder roles involved with business analysis activities. They are 
summarized in Table 1.1. 

1.2 Reviewing the Business Analysis Core Concept Model (BACCM™) 
 
Reviewing the Business Analysis Core Concept Model (BACCM™)  
 
The Business Analysis Core Concept Model (BACCM™) provides you with a conceptual 
framework that shows what it really means to be a business analyst. This framework creates a 
common, generic language describing the business analysis profession. You can use this 
common language to discuss what you do with a business analyst working in a different 
industry.  
There are six concepts in the BACCM™: change, need, solution, stakeholder, value, and 
context. You need to understand all of these concepts in relation to one another to be an 
effective business analyst. They are the framework for a successful business analysis effort.  
 
Change Change is the driving force for most projects and initiatives. Change takes place when 
one responds to satisfy a need. You need to be aware of the enterprise-level changes that will 
result from your project efforts and outcome.  
Need Businesses and their stakeholders have needs that often result in projects. Needs are 
value-driven ways to address business problems or opportunities. Solution Solutions are the 
end result of projects and initiatives. They resolve the problems or take advantage of the 
opportunities.  

Solutions satisfy needs within the context of the enterprise and its environment. 
Stakeholder Stakeholders are the people who have a relationship to the change, need, or 
solution. Stakeholder analysis often groups stakeholders relative to these relationships.  
Value Value is the worth of something to a stakeholder within the context of the enterprise. 
Business analysts assess value as a tangible or intangible thing. Business analysts should assess 
value from the key stakeholder’s point of view.  
Context Context is the environment where the change is taking place.  
 
The BACCM™ and its six concepts help you assess the quality and completeness of the work 
you are doing. As you will see, the concepts intertwine as you work through a project. A change 
that affects the tasks, tools, inputs, or deliverables covered by one of the concepts presents an 
opportunity for reevaluation of the impact on the other five concepts. The magnitude of the 
change, as well as where you are in the project life cycle, determines how significant the 
changes may be. The effects can be felt both in your current projects and in what may need to 
change moving forward.