Produce the Elicitation Activity Plan 
 
The elicitation activity plan defines both the logistics and scope of a specific elicitation activity. 
The logistics for the elicitation activity include the scheduled resources and the supporting 
materials. The scheduled resources are exactly what they sound like—the people, facilities, and 
equipment that you need for requirements elicitation. The resource schedule should include the 
resource name or names, the location of the elicitation activity, and anything else that might be 
needed. 
Business analysts often like to use a worksheet to plan their elicitation efforts and get a handle 
on the questions they will be asking. Table 5.3 provides an example of a requirements 
elicitation worksheet populated for a round of solution requirements elicitation at Palmer 
Divide Vineyards. You can use questions and apply techniques, as shown here, or add 
additional information to your worksheet based on your organization and the nature of your 
project. 

Table 5.3 Palmer Divide Vineyards elicitation worksheet 

Supporting materials are anything that you need in order to perform the elicitation activity. 
These materials could be required for a particular elicitation technique, such as having a 
whiteboard available for a requirements workshop. 
 
Preparing for a brainstorming session involves defining the session itself, including the 
particular area of interest for the session and the amount of time that will be spent by the 
participants. A longer brainstorming session is needed for larger groups of people. The ideal 
brainstorming session contains six to eight people. 
Other logistics need to be determined prior to the session start. The session’s facilitator and 
participants need to be selected. Expectations for the session should also be defined, focusing 
on the area of interest. The evaluation and rating criteria for the idea reduction step should also 
be set and agreed to in advance. 
 
Table 5.3 Palmer Divide Vineyards elicitation worksheet 
 
As a business analyst, you are responsible for adequate requirements elicitation preparation. 
On large projects, this responsibility often falls to the collective members of the business 
analysis team, who will be simultaneously eliciting requirements information from different 
stakeholders. Be sure to coordinate who is doing what, when, and make sure you plan to sit 
down and accumulate what everyone has learned. Any business analysis stakeholder can be 
involved in requirements elicitation. The project manager, domain SMEs, and the project 
sponsor may also be involved in the elicitation prep work. 
 
Now, let’s take a look at the next step in effective requirements elicitation—successfully 
conducting the elicitation activity. 