Let’s take a look at the outputs result from applying one or more of these techniques to this 
task or defining the future state 
 
Defining the Future State 
There are three outputs from this task: the business objectives, the future state description, and 
the potential value. The three outputs are tightly intertwined. The business objectives state the 
desired direction required for the business to achieve the future state. The future state 
description defines the new, removed, and modified components of the enterprise, and the 
potential value expected from the future state. 
 
Once the business objectives, future state, and the future state’s potential value are identified, 
understood, and documented, they are used as inputs by several other business analysis tasks. 
These tasks are listed in Table 3.5. They have a strong solution focus, and they are integral 
pieces for defining the solution approach and scope. 
  
Table 3.5 Outputs: Define future state. 

A number of stakeholders are involved with defining the future state relative to a particular 
business need and to the current state of the enterprise. Business analysts usually drive this 
work. It is a best practice to appoint a sponsor who owns the business need and authorizes the 
actions to make sure that need is met. Often this is done by the project that was triggered as a 
result of the business need being identified and addressed. 

Customers and suppliers may be significantly impacted when a new future state is defined and 
targeted to meet a business need. Other key stakeholders who provide information about the 
strengths and weaknesses of the current capabilities include the following: 

 Domain SME  
 End user  
 Implementation SME  
 Operational support  
 Project manager 
 Regulator  
 Tester 
 
You can use the current and future state descriptions to identify, prioritize, and select the 
solution approach for implementing or obtaining the required capabilities. This will be set forth 
as part of the change strategy and discussed later in this chapter. 