Let’s take a look at the task inputs used to assist the business analyst in defining the change 
strategy and solution scope: 

Current State Description The current state description defines the current capabilities of the 
organization relative to the business need being addressed and the desired future state to be 
defined. When defining the change strategy, an assessment of internal and external influences 
is crucial and should be found here. 
 
Future State Description The future state description provides the business analyst with a 
baseline and context about the desired future state. 
 
Risk Analysis Results This input defines the identified risks and analyzes negative exposure 
to value for each of those risks. 
Stakeholder Engagement Approach Stakeholder communication and collaboration needs are 
defined in this approach. They can assist the business analyst in identifying change-related 
activities that are stakeholder related. 
 
There are also several guidelines and tools used as inputs to this task. Let’s step through them 
briefly now. 
 
Business Analysis Approach The business analysis approach provides guidance on how the 
business analyst defines the change strategy and what the contents of that strategy might be. 
 
Design Options There can be a number of design options that satisfy the business need. Each 
option has its own challenges that need to be addressed by the change strategy once an option 
is selected. 
 
Solution Recommendations The change strategy typically offers more than one potential 
solution to a business need. By identifying possible solutions, the “best fit” solution can be 
selected that can be pursued to achieve the desired future state. 
 
When defining the change strategy, business analysts are expected to address five essential 
elements when completing the task. Remember, the solution scope and the change strategy are 
the two key outputs from this task. The elements are as follows: 
 
 Defining the solution scope 
 Performing a gap analysis  
 Assessing enterprise readiness  
 Defining the change strategy  
 Looking at transition states and release planning 