When Does Requirements Life Cycle Management Take Place? 
The tasks in the Requirements Life Cycle Management knowledge area begin as soon as 
requirements development work begins for a project. They accompany the work being done in 
any knowledge area that develops requirements, including Strategy Analysis, Requirements 
Analysis, Design Definition, and Solution Evaluation. Effective business analysts make sure 
that their requirements-related communication activities take place across the project life cycle. 
Several key business analysis deliverables influence and guide managing the requirements 
under development on a project. These approaches were created as part of the Business 
Analysis Planning and Monitoring knowledge area. They include the following: 

 Change strategy  
 Governance approach  
 Information management approach 
The tasks in the Requirements Life Cycle Management knowledge area rely on the contents of 
these approaches that define how you make decisions about proposed changes, implement 
traceability, and store requirements and designs information as you develop your project 
requirements. With that in mind, let’s step through the first task in the Requirements Life Cycle 
Management knowledge area: tracing requirements. 

Trace Requirements 
Requirements traceability provides the business analyst with the ability to identify and 
document the lineage of each requirement and design. A requirement’s lineage includes its 
relationship to other project requirements, to work products, and to the solution components. 
When business analysts say that they can trace a requirement or design, they are telling you 
that they can look at that specific requirement or design and all other requirements and designs 
to which it is related. 
Requirements traceability begins with each project’s business needs. The business needs are 
used to determine the business requirements. In turn, the business requirements are 
decomposed into the more detailed stakeholder requirements level. Stakeholder requirements 
get broken down once more into the detailed solution requirements that transition the project 
team from requirements definition to solution design and development. All of the requirements 
that make up a project’s solution scope should trace back to one or more business needs for 
that project. 
Figure 4.2 summarizes the inputs, outputs, guidelines, tools techniques, and associated tasks 
for tracing requirements on a project. 
 
Figure 4.2 Task summary: Trace requirements. 

Inputs either are informational in nature or can be outputs produced by other business analysis 
tasks. Inputs are acted on by the task elements and techniques, producing one or more task 
outputs. These are the task inputs used when tracing requirements:  
Requirements All requirements can be traced to other requirements on a project. According 
to the BABOK® Guide, “other requirements” include goals, objectives, business requirements, 
stakeholder requirements, solution requirements, and transition requirements. All solution and 
stakeholder requirements must be traceable to a business requirement. Requirements may also 
have traceability relationships with solution components, business rules, and other work 
products. 