Producing the traced requirements is an interim and necessary step in creating the approved 
requirements for a project. Traced requirements are strongly recommended as an 
accompaniment to the approved requirements for your project. Let’s take a look at another 
aspect of producing project requirements: maintaining requirements for reuse on future projects 
and initiatives.

4.3 Maintain Requirements 
Requirements can and will change on your projects, even while the requirements are being 
developed. Maintaining requirements focuses on the current requirements for your project, as 
well as possibly reusing some of those requirements on other projects and initiatives 
downstream. Requirements are maintained so they stay current and correct across the project 
life cycle, particularly after an approved change. 
Some requirements developed for a particular project might also be candidates for long-term 
use or reuse by the organization. The requirements that you choose to maintain might relate to 
infrastructure, hardware, software, or operational capabilities that the organization must meet 
on an ongoing basis versus just for your particular project.  

Requirements that can be reused on other projects must be named, defined, and easily available 
to other business analysts in the organization. These requirements are stored and managed in a 
requirements repository. Some organizations save and maintain all ongoing, operational 
requirements to assist support and maintenance teams in evaluating possible impacts of 
changes to the deployed solutions and systems. 
 
Figure 4.3 Task summary: Maintain requirements. 

Several inputs are needed to maintain reusable requirements and designs while a project is 
ongoing and after that project is complete. These key inputs are produced by other business 
analysis tasks and include the requirements themselves. Here is a closer look at these inputs:  
Requirements Requirements that are maintained for reuse typically describe the current state 
of an organization and the systems and solutions that are being used to address a business need.  
Designs Designs that are maintained for reuse also describe the current systems and solutions 
that are being used. They can be maintained across their life cycle.  

Let’s also take a look at the guidelines and tools that may be used as inputs to the maintaining 
requirements task: 

Information Management Approach The business analyst’s approach for managing 
requirements reuse is defined as part of the information management approach during Business 
Analysis Planning and Monitoring activities. 
Table 4.4 summarizes the inputs, guidelines, and tools used by the task and lists their source 
(if applicable). 