After the business need and the current state of the business relative to that need are articulated 
for a project or initiative, they are not expected to change significantly through that project’s 
life cycle. If the business need for a project does change during that project’s life cycle, the 
business analyst will have to go back to validate all of the high-level planning and definition 
work to make sure everything is still okay. 
 
Figure 3.1 summarizes the inputs, outputs, guidelines, tools, techniques, and associated tasks 
for analyzing the current state of the business relative to a problem or an opportunity. 

Figure 3.1 Task summary: Analyze current state. 
 
Figure 3.1 Task summary: Analyze current state. Inputs either are informational in nature or 
can be outputs produced by other business analysis tasks. Inputs are acted on by the task 
elements and techniques, producing one or more task outputs. Let’s take a look at the task 
inputs used when analyzing the current state:  
 
Needs Problems or opportunities must be understood as part of analyzing the current state of 
the enterprise relative to a potential change in how things are currently done. 

Elicitation Results (confirmed) Elicitation results help key stakeholders to define and 
understand the current state of the enterprise relative to the business need. Elicitation 
information is informally confirmed to identify and resolve any problems with the information 
before it is used in some way. Confirmed elicitation results should contain no errors, omissions, 
conflicts, or ambiguity relative to other information that has been gathered or is known.  

Guidelines and tools also may be inputs used by business analysis tasks. Guidelines are 
instructions or descriptions of why and how a business analyst will undertake a task. Tools, on 
the other hand, are methods for conducting a business analysis task or shaping a task output. 
Let’s take a look at the guidelines and tools that may be used as inputs when analyzing the 
current state: 
 
Business Analysis Approach The business analyst’s approach to analyzing the current state 
of the enterprise is defined and guided by the business analysis approach. Every time a business 
analyst tackles a task, they need to think about how they will go about getting that work done. 
Using your organization’s business analysis approach to performing this work can be helpful 
and keep you on track. The approach can be as simple as a series of steps to produce a 
deliverable or as complex as a detailed plan for gathering information and creating a project 
deliverable.  
 
Enterprise Limitation Challenges, such as the lack of resources or knowledge/skill gaps, can 
exist within the enterprise relative to the business need and the potential change. These 
limitations can impact the resulting requirements and solution and must be identified and 
addressed. 
 