5.4 Manage Stakeholder Collaboration 
 
Confirming the elicitation results is not enough. Effective business analysts foster a spirit of 
collaboration and teamwork with their stakeholders across the project life cycle. Business 
analysis work does not take place in a vacuum. Business analysis efforts require significant 
collaboration as work products are defined, documented, reviewed, revised, and approved. 
Business analysts should strive to minimize risk and maximize positive reactions by keeping 
the right people “in the loop” relative to business analysis information and work activities. 
Managing stakeholder collaboration is an ongoing task for the business analyst. As work moves 
forward, stakeholders are identified, their roles are confirmed, and they receive 
communications at the right time about the correct topics. New stakeholders can be identified 
at any point in time and must be incorporated into the collaborative work environment the 
business analyst has created. Stakeholders can also wear many hats on a project, taking on 
multiple roles as the project progresses. 

Figure 5.6 Task summary: Manage stakeholder collaboration. 

Several key inputs are needed to adequately prepare business analysts to perform this task. 
Let’s take a look at each of these task inputs in greater detail: 
Stakeholder Engagement Approach This approach defines and describes the types of 
engagement expected from the stakeholders and suggests ways to manage and deal with those 
stakeholders. 
 
Business Analysis Performance Assessment This assessment focuses on how effectively 
business analysis tasks are being performed. The tasks being assessed include those tasks 
targeting stakeholder engagement. 
There are additional inputs that may be used by business analysis tasks: guidelines and tools. 
Let’s take a closer look at the guidelines and tools that may also be used as inputs when 
managing stakeholder collaboration: 

Business Analysis Approach The business analysis approach is a “one-stop shop” for the 
general strategy used to guide business analysis work on your project. The approach contains 
stakeholder information and the level of involvement and collaboration expected from the 
stakeholders during business analysis activities. 
Business Objectives Business objectives define the direction to take in order to achieve the 
desired future state. These objectives are frequently used to focus your stakeholders on a 
common goal for the desired changes and the resulting solution. 

Future State Description The future state description defines where the initiative is heading 
and what will result when the changes have been implemented. This description is also used to 
focus stakeholders on a common goal as they work together to achieve that future state. 
Recommended Actions Recommended actions suggest what should be done to improve the 
value of a solution. They are part of the common goal the business analyst can use to keep 
stakeholders working together and heading in the same direction.

Risk Analysis Results Some risks identified for your project will be stakeholder-related risks. 
You will need to address these risks to maintain communication and collaboration with 
stakeholders across the project life cycle. 
 