External Influencers External influences add constraints, dependencies, or drivers to the 
description and understanding of the current state of things. There are many sources of external 
influences on an enterprise, including industry structure, competitors, customers, suppliers, the 
political and regulatory environment, technology, and macroeconomic factors such as 
unemployment or inflation. There are a number of techniques that you may choose to apply 
when analyzing the current state of the enterprise. To make sure you consider a range of 
business needs and desired outcomes before settling on what is driving your potential project, 
we recommend that you use the document analysis and the root-cause analysis techniques. 
Let’s take a look at these two techniques in greater detail. 
 
Recommended Technique: Document Analysis Document analysis allows a business analyst 
to elicit, confirm, or crosscheck project requirements information by studying existing 
documentation and other relevant information. These secondary sources of information allow 
the business analyst to gather details for existing solutions (the “as is” situation) to see whether 
they have components that can be used or should be changed for the new solution that is being 
proposed (the “to be” situation).  
 
Document analysis assumes that the existing documentation is easily available and up-to-date. 
If the information is not up-to-date and valid, it will be of little help to a business analyst in 
eliciting or confirming the requirements. The “existing stuff” is information prepared for 
another project or purpose but relevant to your requirements development efforts. This type of 
secondary data can be quite helpful during requirements elicitation. To conduct document 
analysis, the business analyst steps through three stages: preparation, the actual document 
review, and wrap-up. Preparation involves locating and evaluating the relevant system and 
business documentation.  
 
During document review, you study the material, identify the relevant details (technical and 
business), and document them along with any questions you might have to follow up on with 
the subject matter experts (SMEs). Wrap-up is the “get answers, review, and confirm” step. 
 
Recommended Technique: Root-Cause Analysis Business analysts perform root-case 
analysis to determine the underlying source of a problem. This structured technique is used to 
examine a situation in order to establish the root causes and resulting effects of a particular 
problem. The BABOK® Guide recommends two common methods for root-cause analysis: 
the fishbone diagram and the five whys. 