1.3 Exploring the Business Analysis Knowledge Areas 
 
The BABOK® Guide is based on a set of knowledge areas guiding the business analyst when 
they perform business analysis activities at any point in the project or product life cycle. 
Knowledge areas define what business analysts need to understand and the tasks they should 
perform. They do not represent project phases, and their activities are not intended to be 
performed in a linear fashion. Tasks from one or more knowledge areas may be performed in 
any order (such as in succession, simultaneously, or iteratively), provided that the necessary 
inputs to each task are available.  
 
Six knowledge areas are defined by the BABOK® Guide. If you are planning to take the 
Certified Business Analyst Professional (CBAP®) or Certification of Competency in Business 
Analysis (CCBA™) exam, you will need to memorize the high-level definition of each 
knowledge area, as well as the more detailed tasks, elements, inputs, and outputs. If you are 
interested in applying these knowledge areas to your work world, you will need to master the 
tasks and the skills in order to become an effective business analyst.  
Figure 1.1 shows the relationships between the six knowledge areas listed here: 
 
• Business Analysis Planning and Monitoring  
• Elicitation and Collaboration  
• Requirements Life Cycle Management  
• Strategy Analysis Requirements Analysis and Design Definition 
• Solution Evaluation 
 
Figure 1.1 Relationships between knowledge areas 
 
Knowledge Area: Business Analysis Planning and Monitoring 
 
In the Business Analysis Planning and Monitoring knowledge area, a business analyst plans 
how to approach the business analysis effort. The approach is a set of processes, templates, and 
activities used to perform business analysis in a specific context. The tasks organize and 
coordinate the performance of all other business analysis tasks. These planning and monitoring 
activities take place throughout the project life cycle. The results of this knowledge area guide 
the tasks found in the remaining five knowledge areas and set the performance metrics to be 
used to evaluate all business analysis work. So, what is a business analyst to do? Well, the 
business analyst’s task list for this particular knowledge area consists of the following: 
 
• Planning the business analysis approach for the project  
• Determining how to engage stakeholders, including stakeholder identification, analysis, and 
categorization  
• Defining the business analysis governance activities for decision making  
• Addressing business analysis information management needs  
• Planning the requirements development and management process  
• Managing and reporting on the business analysis effort 