Let’s step through each of these elements involved in defining the change strategy for a project: 
Solution Scope The BABOK® Guide defines a solution as “the outcome of a change that 
allows an enterprise to satisfy a need.” Solution scope describes the boundaries of a solution, 
including the major features, functions, and interactions of the proposed solution. You need to 
be sure to state both the in-scope and out-of-scope solution components across the full 
enterprise architecture. 
 
Gap Analysis Gap analysis results show the difference between the current state and the future 
state of the enterprise relative to a business need. Business analysts compare the two states and 
look at the capability gaps between where the enterprise is right now and where the enterprise 
wants to be in the future. The change strategy creates the missing capabilities or improves upon 
existing capabilities to eliminate or minimize the gap. 

Enterprise Readiness Assessment This assessment looks at the enterprise’s capacity to make 
a change, use the resulting change, and operationally support the change over time. This 
assessment is made relative to realizing value from the solution, which is the outcome of the 
change. The assessment looks at cultural readiness and operational readiness, the timeline for 
implementing the change, and the resources available to support the change effort. 
 
Change Strategy In a nutshell, the change strategy is a high-level plan of key activities for 
transitioning the enterprise from its current state to the desired future state. This strategy looks 
at multiple options for achieving the change and recommends which of these options are 
actually feasible courses of action. 

A preferred change strategy is selected from the feasible options and developed in greater 
detail. Many times, a business case is built for the feasible options to help with decision making. 
Selection criteria for choosing the preferred change strategy include the following 

 Organizational readiness 
 Major costs and investments 
 Timelines for making the change 
 Alignment to business objectives 
 Timelines for value realization 
 Opportunity costs 