Change Strategy Checking the organization’s or the project’s change strategy allows for 
improved assessment of stakeholder impact and development of more effective stakeholder 
engagement strategies. 
 
Current State Description How things are working right now provides context for the work 
being done. Being familiar with the current state can lead to more effective stakeholder analysis 
and understanding relative to the impacts the planned change will have on your stakeholders. 
 
Table 2.5 summarizes the inputs to the Plan Stakeholder Engagement task and also lists the 
task that was the source of the input (if applicable). 
 
Business analysts building the stakeholder collaboration plan at any point in their projects 
should apply three detailed elements as they build their stakeholder list, roles, and 
responsibilities. The detailed elements necessary to analyze stakeholders and document 
meaningful information about them include the following: 
 
•Perform stakeholder analysis.  
•Define stakeholder collaboration.  
•Assess stakeholder communication needs.  
 
Let’s take a look at each element in greater detail. 
Perform Stakeholder Analysis 
 
How do you figure out who needs to be involved with the business analysis activities for your 
project? It can be fairly straightforward to find the key business analysis stakeholders for a 
project. Because business analysts tend to spend a lot of time developing project requirements, 

identifying and analyzing stakeholders is an absolute must. It can be quite painful to miss a 
significant stakeholder early on and then discover them later in the project. There can also be 
indirect or hidden stakeholders out there who are waiting to be found. 
 
There are four key areas for you to consider as part of your stakeholder analysis activities: 
roles, attitudes, decision making, and power. Let’s look at each area in greater detail. 
•Roles 
•Attitudes  
•Decision-Making Authority 
•Level of Power or Influence 
 
Define Stakeholder Collaboration 
 
How do you figure out who needs to be involved with the business analysis activities for your 
project? It can be fairly straightforward to find the key business analysis stakeholders for a 
project. Because business analysts tend to spend a lot of time developing project requirements, 
identifying and analyzing stakeholders is an absolute must. It can be quite painful to miss a 
significant stakeholder early on and then discover them later in the project. There can also be 
indirect or hidden stakeholders out there who are waiting to be found 