Risk Identification Risks need to be identified before they can be analyzed. Most business 
analysts enter identified risks into a risk register for a “one-stop shopping” approach to risk 
analysis and management. As additional information is analyzed regarding each risk, it can 
also be entered into the risk register.  
 
Risk Analysis To analyze the identified risks, the business analyst determines the probability 
and impact of each risk. This simple determination is usually done with a common scale, such 
as the numbers from 1 to 5, with a 1 being low impact to value and a 5 being high impact to 
value.  
 
Risk Evaluation An easy way to look at the risk exposure is to take the values you specified 
in Risk Analysis and add up all of the individual risk levels and impacts to determine an overall 
risk value. Risk analysis results can then be compared with the potential value of the change to 
see whether the overall level of risk is acceptable for the change. 

Risk Treatments or Responses The business analyst and key stakeholders need to determine 
the treatment or response strategy used to deal with significant negative risks. Five risk 
response strategies are listed in the BABOK® Guide; these strategies are summarized in 

TABLE 3.7 Risk treatment or response strategies 

Other Techniques to Consider 
The BABOK® Guide lists several other techniques that can be used when assessing risks. They 
are summarized for you here: 
 
Brainstorming Brainstorming is an effective way to generate a list of identified risks relative 
to the change being made from the current to the future state. The brainstorming approach 
complements risk assessment activities by enriching the list of possibilities. 
 
Business Cases Business cases are often used to capture risks associated with alternative 
change strategies prior to selecting which strategy to use to make the change actually happen. 
Decision Analysis This technique allows a business analyst to examine and model the costs 
and benefits of a proposed solution and its implementation. You can use graphical decision 
trees and financial valuation techniques to compare and contrast possible outcomes. 
 
Document Analysis Experienced business analysts analyze existing documents for potential 
risks, constraints, assumptions, and dependencies 
Financial Analysis This technique focuses on the potential effects of risks on the financial 
value of the solution as well as on the costs to make that change happen. 
Interviews Interviews are used to speak with stakeholders and understand what those 
stakeholders think might be risks for a proposed change to meet a business need. 
Lessons Learned Lessons learned and other historical data should be used as a source of past 
risks and issues that might also be risks on your project. 