Produce Maintained Requirements 
Maintained and reusable requirements and designs often become part of the organizational 
process assets (OPAs) and the enterprise architecture of an organization. These requirements 
should be formatted and suitable for long-term or future use by the organization.  
Table 4.5 summarizes the output from this task and its destinations. Table 4.5 Output: Maintain 
requirements. 
 
Table 4.5 Output: Maintain requirements. 
As a business analyst, you have the primary responsibility for formatting and storing 
maintained and reusable requirements and designs after your project is complete. It is likely 
that these requirements will be used by a different business analyst at a future date, so you 
should make sure that the requirements are accessible and easily understood. Several other 
business analysis stakeholders also have a need for reusable and maintained requirements, 
including the following: 

 Domain SMEs 
 Implementation SMEs 
 Support 
 Regulators  
 Testers 

Reusable and maintained requirements are not always produced on every project. The only 
requirements that you should consider for this task are those that the organization must meet 
on a continuous basis or those that are needed by business stakeholders. Let’s look at another 
essential task in producing project requirements: prioritizing requirements. 
Prioritize Requirements 
Requirements prioritization determines the relative importance of requirements in order to gain 
maximum value to each other and to implement the overall solution scope. Ranking the 
requirements by their importance to stakeholders is the way most business analysts perform 
this task. 
There are many ways to prioritize requirements. The requirements prioritization scheme needs 
to be planned and defined for the business analysis team prior to eliciting requirements 
information at any level of detail. The priority of a specific requirement or group of 
requirements may alter over time as the context and level of detailed knowledge changes. 
 
Figure 4.4 summarizes the inputs, outputs, guidelines, tools, techniques, and associated tasks 
used to prioritize requirements. Remember, requirements prioritization is a consultative and 
ongoing process. Your stakeholders play a key role in prioritizing the requirements and should 
make the final decision on which new solution capabilities are most important to them as well 
as which capabilities are absolutely required to get the job done. 
 
Figure 4.4 Task summary: Prioritize requirements. 
 
Two inputs are used when prioritizing requirements or designs. 