5.2 The Business Analyst’s Task List 
You have five tasks to perform in the Elicitation knowledge area. We will cover each one of 
these tasks in detail later in this chapter. The task list from the BABOK® Guide includes the 
following: 

 Preparing for requirements elicitation 
 Conducting the elicitation activity 
 Confirming the elicitation results 
 Communicating business analysis information 
 Managing stakeholder collaboration 

These tasks focus on obtaining the right information from the right sources in order to develop 
the right requirements for your project. Remember, effective requirements elicitation in your 
projects is multifaceted and requires the following: 

 The right sources 
 The right information 
 The right technique 
 Clear organization 
 Evaluation and understanding 
 Accurate reporting 
If requirements elicitation is done correctly, the dividends that get paid downstream in the 
project requirements lead to an appropriate solution design. When the solution design is 
implemented and deployed, the requirements are still framing the work effort, keeping the team 
on track to meet the project stakeholder’s needs and expectations. 
When Does Elicitation Take Place? 
  I have noticed that even people who claim everything is predetermined and that we can do 
nothing to change it, look before they cross the road. 
    —Stephen Hawking 
The tasks in the Elicitation and Collaboration knowledge area begin early in the project life 
cycle and typically peak during the more detailed requirements development phase of the 
project. Requirements can be elicited at any point in the project life cycle. Typically, you elicit 
information for the first time early in the project life cycle. You will also find yourself eliciting 
information to clarify things you have missed or misinterpreted along the way. Changing 
requirements also trigger additional elicitation efforts later in the project life cycle. 
Don’t underestimate the importance of the work that gets done by these five tasks on your 
projects. Without the right requirements information from the right people, your project will 
probably not succeed. Let’s step through the first task in the Elicitation and Collaboration 
knowledge area: preparing for a particular elicitation effort or activity. 
