The business analyst needs to decide the project’s approach to traceability before the 
requirements development work actually begins. It is important to decide the level of 
traceability and the types of relationships to be traced ahead of time. That allows the business 
analysis team to do this work concurrently with developing the requirements. 
Selecting Relationships to Trace Key dependencies and relationships between requirements 
should be recorded so they can be traced across the project life cycle. Creating and maintaining 
this information assists the business analyst in sequencing project work activities to design and 
deploy the capabilities found in the requirements. It also assists the business analyst in correctly 
allocating requirements to solution components. The following are types of relationships to 
consider: 
Derive. Derivation is the backward traceability of a requirement to its higher-level parent. An 
example of derivation is when a solution requirement is derived from a business or stakeholder 
requirement. 

Depends. A dependency relationship exists between two requirements when the requirements 
depend upon one another in some way. There are two types of dependency: necessity and effort. 
Necessity is when it makes sense to implement one requirement only when another requirement 
is also implemented. Effort is when a requirement is easier to implement when a related 
requirement is also implemented. 
Satisfy. The satisfy relationship exists between a requirement and a solution component. 
Essentially, the solution component satisfies the associated requirement.  
Validate. This relationship exists between a requirement and the test case or other method that 
validates or proves the solution fulfils the requirement. 
Traceability Repository Traceability is usually achieved by putting the requirements in a 
table, spreadsheet, or tool to manage the tracing activities. Although traceability can be done 
manually using a spreadsheet, complex projects often require a more streamlined approach. 
Many business analysts prefer to use a requirements management tool or a configuration 
management system to trace large numbers of requirements. 

Implementing traceability for project requirements demands work from the business analysis 
team, but it’s worth the effort. Traceability is used for many things on a project. For example, 
traceability allows the business analyst to thoroughly evaluate the impacts of a change request 
to both the requirements and the solution components. In another example, tracing 
requirements back to the business needs shows the business analyst how those objectives will 
be accomplished. This also allows the business analyst to confirm that all the business needs 
are included in the solution scope and the solution components. In one last example, traceability 
allows the business analyst to trace the subset of requirements that are allocated to each of the 
solution components. 