2.4 Plan Stakeholder Engagement 
Think of the business analysis stakeholders on a project as members of a professional sports 
team. Each stakeholder has a particular position to play as a member of the team. Some of your 
stakeholders are starters and play for the whole game; others substitute in and out during the 
game and play intermittently. There are stakeholders on the team who don’t play the game but 
might coach the team, bring water out onto the field, or cheer for the team from the stands. Just 
like players on a sports team, some of your stakeholders will play better than others. The 
business analysis team needs to know these stakeholders and the role or roles they play in the 
project. Figure 2.2 summarizes the inputs, outputs, techniques, and associated tasks for 
conducting stakeholder analysis in accordance with the BABOK® Guide. 

Figure 2.2 Task summary: Plan stakeholder engagement. 

As discussed earlier in the chapter, inputs can be guidelines, tools, or outputs produced by other 
business analysis tasks. Inputs are acted on by the task elements and techniques, producing one 
or more task outputs. Let’s take a look at the task inputs used when analyzing project 
stakeholders and planning how to engage those stakeholders: 
 
Needs: The focus of the Plan Stakeholder Engagement task is on the stakeholders who will be 
affected by the business need that is driving the project. Over time, you may discover and 
analyze new stakeholders that the business analysis team was unaware of at the beginning of 
the project. You also need to beware of the stakeholders who change their position as the 
project progresses. The business need for the project is defined during Strategy Analysis. 
Business Analysis: Approach Successful business analysts make sure that the business 
analysis approach and the stakeholder collaboration approach are in sync with one another. 
Consistency across these two approaches ensures that the business analysis activities, 
stakeholder collaboration activities, and communication activities are all working together. 
 
Let’s take a look at the guidelines and tools that are also used to build the stakeholder 
engagement approach: 
Business Analysis Performance Assessment The business analysis performance assessment 
contains results from business analysis activities on previous projects for you to review and 
incorporate into your current approach to working with your stakeholders. 