SWOT Analysis This tool evaluates the strengths, weaknesses, opportunities, and threats to 
the current state enterprise.  
Vendor Assessment This technique determines whether vendors that are part of the current 
state are adequately meeting their commitments or whether changes are needed.  
Workshops Workshops help engage key stakeholders as they collaboratively describe the 
current state and their current or future needs relative to that state. Business analysts select the 
techniques they will apply as part of analyzing the current state. There is no need to use all of 
these techniques, so choose wisely. Let’s take a look at the outputs that result from applying 
your selected techniques to this task. 

Analyzing the Current State  
There are two related outputs from this task: the current state description and the business 
requirements. The current state description provides the context for the enterprise’s existing 
scope, capabilities, resources, performance, culture dependencies, infrastructure, external 
influences, and significant relationships between these elements. The business requirements 
define the problem, opportunity, or constraint defined based upon understanding the definition 
and inner workings of the current state. The business requirements include the business need, 
describing the problem or opportunity that an organization is facing. The business requirements 
and the current state description drive the start of your project. 
 
Table 3.3 summarizes the output from the Analyze Current State task. 

Once the current state is identified, understood, and documented, it is used as an input or 
guideline by many other business analysis tasks. They include conducting stakeholder analysis, 
assessing risks, and analyzing the potential value of taking action. Additionally, the remaining 
three Strategy Analysis tasks require the current state as an input or guideline for performing 
their big-picture activities and completing the high-level definition of the project. A number of 
stakeholders are involved with identifying and analyzing business needs within an 
organization. 