Decision Modelling This technique is used to model complex decisions regarding future state 
options. Decision models can use tables or trees to show how data and knowledge are combined 
to make a specific decision.  
Financial Analysis When defining the future state, financial analysis is used to estimate 
potential financial returns to be delivered by that proposed future state.   
Functional Decomposition Functional decomposition allows the business analyst to break 
down the complex systems and relationships that will make up the desired future state into 
smaller, easily understood pieces and parts.  
 
Interviews During future state definition, a business analyst speaks with key stakeholders in 
order to understand their needs and objectives relative to the future state. 
Lessons Learned Lessons learned can assist business analysts in determining which 
opportunities for improvement will be addressed as part of the future state and how to improve 
upon the current state.  
 
Metrics and Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) Metrics and KPIs are used to assess the 
performance of the future state of the enterprise. This technique can help business analysts 
determine when the organization has achieved the business objectives linked to the future state. 
 
Mind Mapping Mind mapping is a creative way to develop future-state ideas using a visual, 
nonlinear diagram that maps the relationships between ideas.  
 
Organizational Modelling Organizational models are used to describe the roles, 
responsibilities, and reporting structure that could exist in the future state organization.  
 
Process Modelling This graphical modelling technique describes how work would occur in 
the future state.  
 
Prototyping Prototypes model requirements for one or more future state options and help users 
and other stakeholders determine the potential value and feasibility of each option.  
 
Scope Modelling Scope models define the boundaries of the enterprise in the future state. Plan 
ahead and model the current state, too. Then it is an easy comparison between where the 
enterprise is now and where the enterprise wants to be relative to the business need.  
 
Survey or Questionnaire Surveys or questionnaires allow a business analyst to understand 
stakeholder needs and related business objectives that are part of the future state. This 
elicitation technique is effective with a large, varied, or disparate group of stakeholders over a 
relatively short period of time.  
 
Vendor Assessment This technique assesses the potential value provided by vendor solution 
options relative to the desired future state.  
 
Workshops Workshops help engage key stakeholders as they collaboratively describe the 
future state of the enterprise and their needs. 