To prepare for prototyping, you must clearly identify the functionality that will be modelled 
and select your prototyping approach. Then, build the prototype in an iterative fashion, adding 
details as appropriate. It is important to make sure that the elements of the prototype can be 
traced back to the solution requirements, such as processes, data rules, and business rules. 
Prototypes are intended for end users, so make sure the prototype actually meets their needs 
for the new solution. 
 
There are many forms of prototypes in use today. Table 5.6 describes each form for you. 
 
Table 5.6 Forms of prototypes 
 
Your goal when building a prototype is developing an end-to-end understanding with your end 
users (and for yourself) of how the solution or part of a solution actually works. 
Other Techniques to Consider 
The BABOK® Guide lists some additional techniques that may be used when conducting 
elicitation. They are summarized for you here: 
Benchmarking and Market Analysis Benchmarking studies are a source of business analysis 
information, comparing an aspect of the solution with an external baseline. Market analysis is  
a mechanism for determining what external customers want and what your competition 
provides. 
Brainstorming This technique is used during elicitation to generate many ideas from a 
stakeholder group in a short period of time. The resulting ideas can then be organized and 
prioritized relative to the targeted elicitation activity outcome and what is currently known. 
Business Rules Analysis When eliciting business analysis information, business analysts must 
discover and factor in how decisions are made in the organization and the rules governing 
organization operations. 
Collaborative Games Collaborative games, such as product boxes, affinity maps, and 
fishbowls, help groups of stakeholders develop a better understanding of a problem or stimulate 
creative solutions to a problem. 
Concept Modelling Concept models identify key terms and ideas of importance, and the 
relationships between the two. 
Data Mining Data mining is an analytical way to identify relevant information and patterns 
from data. This technique examines and summarizes large amounts of data from different 
perspectives. 